Reddit 
RollingInTheD

I don't even know where to begin with this one. Philip K. Dick, while a
marvellous author, had one hell of a thing going on in his mind when he wrote
this book (and as I am to understand, many of the books in his later years
were sculpted by his metaphysical and theological discussion, following his
inner revelation of... Whatever he discovered within himself). I just finished
his fantastic, albeit short book, Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep. I was
looking for a book in the post-apocalyptic genre, of which this book is set,
but found it not at all to be what I expected (having never seen Blade Runner
I can make no observations on similarities).

The book gripped me frequently. Dick provides many fascinating concepts,
many of which (particularly regarding the physiology of the android and
what he mentions of its inner workings) seem somewhat ahead of their time
for a book published in 1968. I can only imagine Dick was fascinated by
and drew inspiration from the most recent and novel scientific ideas of the
human brain and consciousness. The book questions what it is to be human,
and quickly it is established that the fundamental aspect that separates
an illegal android from say, the protagonist hunting it, is the concept of
empathy - a subconscious empathic response toward other living entities,
particularly toward human beings.

SPOILER WARNING FROM HERE ON OUT

So the story follows two main protagonists, each of whom is faced with inner
moral and conscious dilemmas: Rick Deckard, a bounty hunter looking for
illegal immigrant androids from Mars colonies, who escape their owners in
pursuit of - what? And John Isidore, a man affected by the fallout of a war
that ravaged the Earth, a war that forced many to emigrate to Mars colonies
so that they would not suffer the now inhospitable life on their home planet.

Deckard begins to question the effectiveness of the tests that are used to
distinguish that element that separates humans from androids, and question his
own morality in 'retiring' androids that seem to just want to live normal
lives, after meeting the newest form of android in person - a Nexus 6,
barely distinguishable from the genuine article, by the name of Rachael Rosen.

Isidore, a 'special' living alone, ostracised by 'normal' humans who have
not suffered the effects of the post-war fallout, is constantly reminded
and assailed by the fact that, as a special, he is unable to bear children,
has apparently diminished intelligence, and cannot as such emigrate from
Earth. He instead lives in squalor, surrounded by decaying remnants of
pre-war Earth. Animals are the most valued commodity, as nearly all are
dead. Isidore works for a company that specialises in furnishing people with
electric substitutes, to save face and vanity for those who cannot afford
to own a real animal.

Deckard's story fills the majority of the 193 pages. While I have never seen
Blade Runner, knowing that the character of Deckard was played by Harrison
Ford made it hard for me to picture him as anyone else. He lives with his
wife in middle class happiness, but both find it almost unbearable to be
living with an electric sheep since the death of their real one. Deckard is
motivated in his pursuit of the illegal androids by the promise of being
able to purchase a real animal, and this motif is apparent throughout the
book - everybody in this world understands the valuable commodity that is a
real animal, and it is seen as practically a moral offence not to make some
effort in looking after one. Indeed at one point Deckard makes apparent the
fact that, immediately after the war, it was law that every family must own
and look after some form of animal. The only ones who do not understand this,
or at least have an artificial response to the concept, are the androids.

The Nexus 6 types come off initially as the 'bad guys', in my opinion,
but this I think is reflective of Deckard's opinion on them - cold,
cruel, calculating. As he begins to warm to them as real, feeling entities,
particularly in the case of Rachael, and when he is faced with a bounty hunter
who revels in killing them, Deckard begins to question his changing view on
them. By the middle of the book, my own opinion began to change too. By the
end though, and again I do stress SPOILERS, Deckard's view once again appears
to change when he is shown the callous nature with which Rachael shows how
she has manipulated him from the very beginning. From this point, and too
from Isidore's view, the lack of empathy within these beings becomes starkly
and somewhat abruptly apparent. I found that, within the last few chapters
(which utterly gripped me and made me think, "What the hell is happening"),
Dick culminated the story by twisting and distorting Deckard's inner monologue
to the point of near insanity. He thought he had empathised with the androids,
when he was shown their true lack of empathy, and that followed by the death
of his second real animal only shortly after purchasing it drove Deckard
a bit mad. He seemed to believe he was in fact the God-figure in his own
peculiar religion, that of Mercerism.

That's the other point I will touch on in this ramble. Mercer, and Mercerism,
intrigued me, it captivated me with the mere idea of it, then it threw
me through a loop when, at the end, it was apparently proven fake by an
android - while at the same time appearing to be somewhat real in the minds
of Deckard and Isidore. At this stage I'm unsure how much of what happened
to the two, wherein they both had real life experiences with Mercer, who
seemed to provide them both with an electronic animal, actually occurred in
some form of reality or simply occurred within their own addled minds.

SPOILERS END HERE

In conclusion to this (somewhat pointless) review/ramble, I'm sitting here
with the book in my lap, feeling somewhat fascinated, somewhat confused and
entirely mindf*cked over what I just finished.

10/10 for those who are fans of the metaphysical. A must-read if you are.

Now I want to know your opinion. Did you like it? Didn't you? Have you read
it or has this made you want to read it? What did you take away from the
obscure, metaphysical aspects of this story? What have you thought of Dick's
other work and what would you recommend?

Thank you for your time, happy reading!

