Dear Friends,

This letter opens with a few reflections. Somehow I will conclude.  Then follow
a few meager efforts of my own.

~~

Pardon the enthusiasm.

How motivating to share our thoughts and intuition! Our reflections often
leak from our minds; not through negligence, but because new impressions
constantly enter. Yet, for one reason or the other, we are driven to capture
these reflections, rather than let them drip down the sink. But of what
avail? Why strive to create? What use are these musings? Then, to read
another's verse or hear another's music or see another's art, reminds me.

I have been so motivated by one friend's written reflections of musical
albums. His eloquence is indicative of laminar expression: Complex ideas
swallowed with ease because their meaning surpasses their explanation. How
smoothly taken, ideas floated on intuition.

Conversely: r-p-o-p-h-e-s-s-a-g-r.

Together we weave threads of elegance and discord; and everything in
between. Enough to make angels watch. (In despair and elation)

Our lives are finite and our works dispensable. Certainly there is a sense
of fate, of sequence. Three years ago I wrote this reflection:

-------

Constant droll of the world.  Perpetual motion that never ceases.  I wonder:
Do our lives form a great machine's cogs and pieces?

As innovative as our ideas seem to be,
	I wonder whether we all merely contribute,
		To an inevitable eternity.

-------

Suppose we grant Descartes his great machine.  Should this determination
spell hopelessness?

I've thought not. Certainly the stars and planets were driven from the
beginning to their motions and locations. Certainly their beauty remains
without us, agents of experience. And where beauty is, hope.

Some might object. How desolate our earthly sphere. How minuscule we are
to entirety; our consciousness but a flicker, an anomaly, within expanding
vacance. Our existence, a vessel to hold a self-created essence; the byproduct
of inevitable demise.

These thoughts, among infinite others, form a platform to expression. Each
of us are called to unique perception. From each other we glean insight,
amusement, exasperation. From each other we are motivated in our disciplines
and outreach.

Personally, these past few years have been a simple development. Some of you
operate at pinnacles of your art. I've been moved towards the expression of
the sublime. At its start, I did not realize this. Rather impulse drove me.

It continues to amaze me. How many times have you been called to paint or
dance or sing by no volition of yourself? Conversely, how many times has
precise intention crafted words and the stories of solar systems?

My photography instructor imparted to our class the value of consistency
and collection. I have finally become satisfied with the for-comings of my
collective work. The following selection is a fraction of my small amount
of work. But I am glad to say it is but a fraction: I'd like to make clear
this is not a splurge but rather an ongoing cultivation I have committed to. I
would not jaunt with your feelings and time to make a temporary point. Rather,
I am in, with, and supportive of the endeavors you undertake.

I am so inspired by each of you. I am so fortunate to be surrounded by
such friends and family. You chefs, musicians, artists, dancers, poets,
composers, designers, thinkers: Your elegance stops my heart.Your stories
recompose my resolve.

Often I feel alone in these endeavors. Then I think of your mind and our
history, and I am reminded of what is possible.

Blasted hollywood. Should the world see your movements, hear your voice, feel
your intention; the depth of your intelligence and care: Babylon would crumble.

To know you is to see a glimpse of Heaven.  Thank you for being in my life :)

David

-------

This selection begins with origin.  ------- Amber Pendant

Amid these mountains I once sat As a boy I ran from such displeasures as
	company, triviality:
To find a more sublime experience than deprecating conversation and social
exclusion.

I ran to the only place of quiet I knew, And lounged in the sun on an
aged tree.  I watched as before me the ravens flew, And took hold of a this
timeless quality.

That kind raven placed into my hand A pendant of amber sunset framed by clouds
of whiteness, milky against the amber sky.  And trees, little glimmers of
darkened amber lines.

Down the middle cracked, like other colored stone: Opening to its depth,
This pendant's expression, A reflection of this mountain's valley fold.

What fancy this held, known by my mind alone: Sky and cloud and ragged cliffs,
Steep brush speckered granite rifts, Illuminated from within, as if there
a sun shone.

Unfolding flowers and swirling scents, Dear God, what a dream hath opened
before me?  I knew not the despair of the coming morning And stood transfixed
before the sunset.

I placed into my pocket over my heart, That glowing amulet and a handful of
flowers, And sung songs down the mountain and returned
	Home after night had fallen.

To my dismay,
	the flowers had all but wilted the next day.
And how alone, when my friends on the baseball benches,
	saw naught but pebbled stone.

-------

~~

----- Swallow's Freedom; Hopes and Dreams


And if we build our hopes on dreams What then should come to pass, Should
our fears awaken
	peering through that looking glass
		into one's sense of self:

Fortitude, tenacity, like Father taught, Yet frustration: Does not the
freedom of mind come from a heart cleansed of tangled impulses?

What grace within the thicket ensnared?  Lest one be a bird, delicate
	enough to make its home among the branches
		and walkways of of leafed corridors.
Enough is delicacy and by nature fulfilled in all things, sweet bird.

~

Yet our kind; Enlightened by reasons of self creation Strive forth,
	Restless, seeking,
		Constructing the ideas of our mind:

Rise Pantheon, rise Notre Dame
	into the sky!
Push up the laden blanket of atmosphere lest we smother.

Turn our eyes towards the heavens, Kepler!  Uncover the chance that there
may be living worlds beyond
	our farthest reaches.

Oh, how the mind has probed such depths: We see the fabric on which all exists.

Dear Newton,
	You show how stars are born in distant winds
		and scatter like dandelions blown,
	You charted the moon's course, Given aim to our mastery of nature's
	force.

Dear God and Bernoulli, look at the metal birds that are flown!

Our planes do weave across the globe, Each a strand in the worldwide web,
The distance of oceans has become unknown; Cities, stepping stones over
which we tread.

~

Gently steps off the traveler into that bustle of rumbling trains and
close-quartered people.  How swift she glides through the crowd; Delicate
dance steps between shop stands and and groups of people,

With no one bound to her travel comes quick: Into the main station hall,
A sidestep left fawned feet Down an echoed corridor and onto the street.

Sunlight trickles through treetops, Wind ushers forth a shy mountain cold
who come night shall grow bold.

Our traveler continues her free form way; And walks towards where-ever she may.

A swallow's freedom as comforting as home.

~

What of fears?	Naught but hinderance lest correctly judged.

What of hopes?	That today be worth its time.

And of dreams?	That we recognize when they are here.

-------

~~

------ Spilled Tea


Quiet gloom drips a flurry of sprinkled mist across the windows.

Kissed were lips on the mug's brim, Warmth held within two hands, As if home
were hands and the mug were I.

Aroma filled the nose, Oh how this moment I savored!  Then I raised to drink,

But the tea, the boiling flavor water,
	burnt my tongue: for weeks numb,
			then spilled all over me.

------

~~

------ Untitled

Jom Yom Tom ate an apple pie laced with cyanide, poor guy.  Sally Jane left for
Spain to start her real life fancy.  Cunk Knock Dallie Wock sitting in his car,
	Wishes for dreams that lay in his hands
		before letting them drop.

------

~~

------ Timing Threads

Behold, strands of thread, Unwound themselves to the fraying end: Unraveled
twine pulled apart
    as fingers spread once
	braided hair.
Threads of a long stretched moment, Once bound tight and pulled, now let loose,
    let apart.

Ends of a moment, held dear for what they carried.  Yet time unthreads if
no load pulls tight against it's core strings of entropy.
