Another blast rocked the trench. 
The texture of dust and chemicals were in the air. They coated 
the tounge with acid. Soldiers screamed.

Wood splinters and concrete rubble exploded when the plasma blast hit the hospital. 

Jason was a medic. He spent long days tending the wounded and disposing of the dead.
The hardest job was treating blaster burns. These burns had to be scraped clean 
before they could heal. Anestetic was in low supply. The commanding officers had taken 
the pain reducers for themselves.

Just get through the day Jason thought. Just another day. This one, then the next.
Before I know it I'll be home.

Jason moved towards the patient. The man on the bed suffered from two blast wounds.
One on his thigh and one on side. Jason started with the wound on the patient's side.

The blaster bolt had disinegrated skin, muscle, and bone. The right side of the patient's rib cage
was gone. The wound looked like a chared crater and smelled of sulfur.

Jason restrained the patient. His arms were pulled above his head. Legs lashed to the bed. A leather band came across the waist. Jason then pulled the instrument tray towards him and sat besides the patient.

Jason picked up a flat handled instrument from the tray. The handle curved into a concave extension. The edges were sharp. Jason nodded to his assistant to tighten a gag around the patients mouth. The patient was sedate for the moment; almost unaware that he was being strapped down. The restraints were for when the procedure began.

The patient's mid section jerked up. His arms and legs shook violently. Only then, after the immensity of pain, did the patient release a muffled yell.

Jason scraped and picked against charred flesh. He hacked the instrument into the hardened wound. Then, like a scab, ripped the black tissue from the body. Black scab crumbled to the floor. The wound poured blood. The blood would harden if touched the black blaster residue. Jason worked from the bottom up.

Blaster guns fired superheated liquid. Part of the thermal energy was transfered into high velocity and shot from the a gun's muzzle. The blaster bolt burned holes into the hit material. The holes absorbed more superheated liquid allowing for deeper holes. 

Structures, like the hospital, lost integrity as blaster bolts burned and ate away at the material foundation.
For humans the blaster burn was not the problem. The problem was the chemical residue that would seep into someones blood steam. It slowly poisoned the victim while preventing the wound from healing. The patient on the bed was in the early stages of blaster poisoning. There was still a chance to save him.


Jason continued to pull away the of dark crust of the blaster burn. Finally the last of the blaster residue fell away. The previously black and hardened wound was now red, soft, and pulsing. Jason motioned to his assistant. The assistant replaced the instrument tray with a tub of semi clear gel. 

Jason dumped his hands into the gel, brought up a handful, and slathered it onto the wound. The gel turned red as it mixed with the blood. Next, Jason took a plastic cloth and placed it over the area of the wound being careful to seal the sides. He took a siringe and pricked through the cloth. The assistant flicked a switch and the siringe began to draw air. The cloth depressed. A flutter of air became audiable. Jason pressed his hand on the leak and remade the seal.  The noise of rushing air ceased. After a few moments the siringe was withdrawn. Jason pushed his chair back and told the assistant to take care of the rest. The assistant knoded and applied more adheasive to the edges of the cloth. 

Jason's comm chirped with an incoming message: New patients had arrived from the battle field. He started for the entrace of the hospital.

Desperate men and women wearing different colored uniforms stood, sat, and lay at the entrance of the hospital. War stripped them of ideolgy. Flags and symbols meant little to those who lived in pain. 

A woman in a gray-red trimmed uniform comforted a man in a black and purple combat suit.
Jason moved towards them. He looked down at the woman then at the man in her arms. He had a days old blaster would. Soon he would enter the pain spasms of blaster posining. Jason placed his hand on his thigh holdster. She looked at him and nodded. She knew what had to be done. Jason pulled a revolver from the holdster and handed it to her. He made sure the man did not see. The woman kissed the mans neck and carressed his arm. With her other hand she brought the gun to the back of his head and pulled the trigger. 


The woman passed the gun back to Jason. The moment the gun reached his hand red blaster liquid exploded and consumed the hospital arrival area in violent disapation. All was vaporized. Jason died still with a hope that war would end and he could return home.

