Away, away! Far here from now.
Towards the City of Industry.

Ferraris weave power emmitive among the grid lock.

Distaste of western tougnes, conversation and hopes one can stand again the judgement of others.
Gun slinging word fiction is how you're measured up.

These 3 walked into the salon. Boots oiled by steps through clock ticks

----------------------------------------

Of days with little contact
    do I think,
About the ways we yearn and long,
Tuned to our own song,
    Within our own narrative.

-----------------------------------------
Faint light: dusk to night,
    Seen the nature of lonely delight.
Faint dark: dawn to day,
    Lord may you guide my way, for
Through the valley of the shadow of death
    I walk.
Temptations with crooked faces glare from behind rocks.
They snarl, laugh, and become complacent;
    With rational statement they entice me to come near.
When I move close the earth beneath me drops,
And I fall back into the valley of the shadow of death.

Woe my eye who sees
    A mistress rise from the sand.
She takes my hand
    And whispers sweet nothings to me.
Fingers run through hair, my breath by her neck,

Her hand slides up her leg.
    And reveals a sheath from which she draws
A silver blade. 
Paralyzed, I cannot move. Her eyes 
    are too beautiful.
She finds my scars 
    and reopens skin. 
Exposing flaws hidden within.

Then my muse takes her leave,
    And there I kneel, on my knees
        within the valley of the shadow of death.
My mistress left. Leaving me to bleed.

Through the valley blows a song,
    A vivid story.
    Of men who aspired and achieved,
And there on my knees 
    I wonder if I will ever become something. 

Lord may you guide my way. 
For I walk through the valley of the shadow of death
    a wounded man.
Innocence taken and crushed,
Skin bleeding and cut,
My mind questioning all that I've done.

-----------------------------------------
Folie a Deux
A delusion or mental illness shared by two people in close association
2015

Folie a deux,
Folly of two,
Dreams of fancy and passion.

Folie a deux,
Folly of me and of you.

One glass for two,
Aged through the time
    I have thought of you,
    And you of me.

Sweet whispers, soft touch,
With passion flushed,
Love drunk, loved lust.

Folie a deux,
Dreams that might not come true.

None the less, a delightful dream.

-----------------------------------------
Untitled
2015

        Melt the iron ingot of my heart
        that has been shaped throughout the days
        into a cold sphere heavy to the hand. So may
        the flames of furnace hearth be by touch and whisper fanned 
            to bring color to an overcast day 
                And restore rivers where once ice lay
                    Solid and withdrawn,
                        to molten channels flowing
                            from a melting iron heart.

---------------------------------------

Musing about the way of things,
Compicated systems, variables,
    process.
Late in the night I undress with thoughts
    whirling within my head. 
If this condition then that will happen,
Else something else,
All tied to a clock pulse,
Within the for look i keeps countin.

This outputs that to the input of it. 
Okay, this might be working,
Press go and the scan cycle starts turning,
The compiler just puked. Damnit. Maybe some null statement. 

Where am I now?
So deep within the system I hope I am not lost,
Need to trace myself back to the surface of main,
I deleted more code than I wrote, that's a gain.
Finally able to see the surface of the system,
not wondering what object was just passed. 



----------------------------------------------

Musing about the way of things,
Compicated systems, variables,
    process.
Late in the night I undress with thoughts
    whirling within my head. 

Sinosoid driving force illicits a voltage response
    from a circuits current and imperence worth.
Tied together with differential equations,
    Working these, solving these, 
        Provides unique sensation.

Clear wonder. Logic. Purity. Beauty.
Elegant steps, simillar to the ones musicians harness,
Lead the path to the valid description of the system.


---------------------------------------------

Palm trees along a beach 
    reach out into the sea.
The sun:
    Above the waves, beyond the blue sky, 
        embedded in the black that holds the moon
            and earth, and stars:
                Spacetime stretches infinitely far
                    Into space,
                    Into time.
                    Cosmic history is seen, until several
                        moments before the divine.

Beneath the shade of sun soaked palm trees,
Sit three friends in the sand. 
Each one, of three, holds a key.
Arms outstreched they look at what the others 
    hold in their hands.

These friends place the keys together.
In a flash all is black.
    All is still. 
Zero sound. It's almost loud:
    The infinite space between stars. 
Empty, open; endlessly vast.
    The wind through the trees, waves accross the sea, the warmth of the sand:
        Once present, now ideas at infinity.
    

Black void with no bounds.
No time here. A second, a hour, years
    Happen at the same pace.
There is no direction.
    No spin.
Black beyond, Black within.


One point of light emerges; three pieces combined
    into an infititly dense point of white.  
Little revolving pin head pinned against the black of space.

The point grows.

Soccer ball to medicine ball.
Weather balloon is being filled.
It grows, grows. 

And you, observer. Fly back through black as the 
    light expands. 

White whisps move accross the surface of the pure white
    blinding light. 

You're blind. But you can still feel the heat within the sockets of your eyes.

The sphere now castle sized. 
Now mountains.

Rapid now.
If you could see it would be looking over the Hudson Bay. 
Looking over the Atlantic. 
The size of the moon now.
Then Earth. God! The white burns.

Burns and explodes into a stream of energy and time. Exploding forth from singularity. It shoots forward, expands, then flattening into a disk. 

Then you're drawn in immense velocity. 
You fly through gas, rock, elements, through nebula, past stars, then slingshot around
a planet towards an exploding star. The star collapses, implodes, and you fall in with the debris, into dark. 

Then ejected at a different point in space. Shot forth in a stream of energy.
You tumble between rock and gas. Particles clump and spin around each other.
Smaller pieces collide and form rocks. Around the rocks spin dust, gas. 

In the distance fusion ignites. The light of the Sun. 










