Swallow's Freedom; Hopes and Dreams
June 2016


And if we build our hopes on dreams
What then should come to pass,
Should our fears awaken
	peering through that looking glass
		into one's sense of self:

Fortitude, tenacity, like Father taught,
Yet frustration: Does not the freedom of mind come from a heart cleansed of tangled impulses?

What grace within the thicket ensnared?
Lest one be a bird, delicate 
	enough to make its home among the branches 
		and walkways of of leafed corridors. 
Enough is delicacy and by nature fulfilled in all things, sweet bird. 

~

Yet our kind; Enlightened by reasons of self creation
Strive forth,
	Restless, seeking,
		Constructing the ideas of our mind:

Rise Pantheon, rise Notre Dame 
	into the sky!
Push up the laden blanket of athmosphere lest we smother.

Turn our eyes towards the heavens, Kepler!
Uncover the chance that there may be living worlds beyond
	our farthest reaches. 

Oh, how the mind has probed such depths:
We see the fabric on which all exists.

Dear Newton,
	You show how stars are born in distant winds
		and scatter like dandelions blown,
	You charted the moon's course,
	Given aim to our mastery of nature's force.

Dear God and Bernoulli, look at the metal birds that are flown!

Our planes do weave accross the globe,
Each a strand in the worldwide web,
The distance of oceans has become unknown;
Cities, stepping stones over which we tread. 

~

Gently steps off the traveler into that bustle
of rumbling trains and close-quartered people.
How swift she glides through the crowd;
Delicate dance steps between shop stands and and groups of people,

With no one bound to her travel comes quick:
Into the main station hall.
Then down an echoed corridor and onto the street.

Sunlight trickles through treetops,
Wind ushers forth a shy mountain cold
who come night shall grow bold.

Our traveler continues her free form way;
And walks towards where-ever she may.
A swallow's freedom as comforting as home.

~

What of fears?
Naught but hiderance lest correctly judged.

What of hopes?
That today be worth it's time.

And of dreams?
That we recognize when they are here.