I have accepted the non-relation I may have with Alyssa. For some time I have
been looking for deal makers/breakers. Being on the edge of a marriage desicion
is questionable in itself, but I was determined to reason the decision in
openness to what Christ would will.

It was a struggle. With all my heart I wanted to make it work, but some
underlying mismatches hindered my submission to unity.

I still leave open the possibility of unity with Alyssa, but that is
conditioned on the resolution of these mismatches. I am happy to be shown
wrong; my estimation may well be lacking. Of course Christ's intervention would
also suffice. 

These mismatches are a matter of dishonesty, communication, and participation.

During our brief relationship I have been dishonest: I have not been myself.
Quite consciously, on frequent occasion, I witheld, suppressed, my critical
capacity in order to gain the benifit of mutual amusement. I would think:
"Okay, we are hanging out, let me act the part of Clueless Joe." 

That was fun and it is silly to expect a relationship to consist wholly of
cultivated speach and ideas. 

The issue was my forced intention. My brother and I have banter of sillyness,
but I am honest in the banter's naturality. It would be different if I thought:
"Time to act like Patrick Star because I want to connect with my brother." That
would be dishonest. Now, of course my brother and I have different modes of
banter. 

Our banter reflects our modes of communication and we eenjoy well rounded
communication. It is less about common interest and more about common
expression. For example, I often express myself analytically. When my friend
Clara talks about the syntax of language, that interests me even though I am
years and years behind of her linguistic training. But we still connect because
we both are happy to express ourselfs analytically. 

I don't feel like Alyssa and I's expressions are equally footed. This hindered
the channel of communication. How can two be best friends if the communication
is not clear? Some dandy author calls friendship the realization of "Me too!".
Again, I think this is less about interest and more about expression and the
level of expression. 

This leads to the mismatch of participation. I often felt more observed than
participated with. Particually in my expression of creativity and my expression
of appreciation. For example I deeply wish for someone to evaluate my writing
and tell me "David you need to be less verbose. That line on your poem about
honey bees was nice, but maybe you could add more sensing language." For some
reason this never occured naturally in our relationship.  

Now, I am very open to resolve these issues if they are proven otherwise. One
possibility is there has not been enough time to realize common modes of
expression and common activities to participate in. One example is physical
expression like dance. That has not been given opprotunity. Another possibility
is Alyssa's own development. She's working through a lot of personal things,
and maybe some expressions need to develop. Certainly it took me years and
years to realize who God made me and what I find amusing and in what ways I
enjoy to express myself. It's not a simple thing. So maybe it is the wrong
timing. 

But that leaves open the question of dishonesty. Maybe that was needless. Why
did I default to that mode of expression? Could it be or have been otherwise?

Another variable is my duration in the United States. I sincerely hope to study
in the Netherlands. So how does this all fit into that? 

Tentative Fin.
