2013

Thoughts on Atlas Shrugged


It's interesting that she would end with an emphasis on the dollar sign. One
could argue that she is merely ending her greatest book with a symbol of
simple money. That she holds material wealth above all. That to obtain
"human values one must first be in search of money. But she clearly claims
through out the book that money is only a means towards happiness, not the
end. To her human values come before the creation of wealth. Not that human
values are caused by wealth.

Right.

So Ayn started the world in her book at a time where human inability was merely
hinted through confusions, shadows, and speculations of ideas. She held the
world's situation in the palm of her hand through  question "Who is John Galt?"

Piece by piece she began to assemble a picture of world, leaving scattered
holes that would be filled in as the book progressed. Her childhood is
described; how she grew up with Francisco and Eddie. Her life progressed up
the Taggart workforce. Fransisco followed a similar path. He worked in his
father's copper mines then went to college where he met two others who are
to be significant figures in the book.

Dagny and Hank Rearden are played as heroic figures. People who withstand
any pressure. Both of them view their lives as their own and that despite
the obstacles the "looters" are placing in their way, they will overcome.

Atlas Shrugged continues with Dagny and Hank both fighting the injustices
placed upon them by people in Washington. Dagny saves Taggart Transcontinental
from falling by quitting her position at Taggart, starting a new company,
and creating a rail line through Colorado. She sells the rail line to Taggart
once she is finished. At the same moment, Hank is fighting the government
for control of his newly created metal. Both of them succeed.

Hank and Dagny become lovers and together they discover the remains of a
self sufficient motor. (I should note that Rand's definition of love is
very centered; she views love as a response to one's highest values. One
cannot love something if that something is incompatible with one's moral
self esteem. And those morals should be based on reason.

[  Her ideal lifestyle is akin to what Pete is trying to promote here on
Rachel St. I love the idea; being pushed to be one's best, to strive for
maximum efficiency and personal achievement. But I cannot help but think that
there is a flaw in this sort of thinking. That humans are not meant to give
100% of their energy to everything that they do. Similar to driving a car,
one can drive 100 km/hr and reach a destination in a fast time, but that does
not mean that it is the best for the car. *Note that I am speculating here. I
have not yet made up my mind about how one should conduct their life. I am also
reluctant about making such a conclusion. Yet for Pete and Ayn, if one wishes
to "live" one must constantly be reaching for that higher standard of living.

Okay, great. It is easy to agree with that sentiment if one examines the
larger aspects of life like relationships, work,school, etc…But in order
for one to be consistent and successful in those aspects, does one need to
be completely consistent, completely focused, and compleltly driven in the
small aspects of life, like cleaning, organization, and thought life? Again,
those values are great values to have. I cannot disagree there.

But here on Rachel St, things seem to take a darker more burdensome turn. It
is as if all these values are forced. And the act of forcing takes away from
the intrinsic motivation to live up to those values.  ]

 The type of power generator that is completely sustainable, running off of
 electromagnetic waves.

More and more "men of the mind" are going missing and Dagny becomes determined
to find this man she calls the destroyer.

Eventually she tracks the destroyer down and discovers that the destroyer is
actually John Galt. Together with Fransisco and Ragnar, John is determined
to stop the motor of the world; a world who's existence is flawed at the core.

Dagny spends a few months in "Atlantis" and then goes back to the normal
world which is slowly crumbling.

The socialist system of government cannot provide for the needs of the
people because by itself it cannot create what the people need. Ayn views
the socialist government as a pack of looters who exploit those who have
the ability to produce.

The book ends with Galt being tortured, and Dagny, Rearden, Fransisco,
and Ragnar saving him. The last statement of the book is of Galt tracing
the sign of the dollar. 

