Reddit 
scartonbot

Maybe we're all looking at this the wrong way.

The major economic systems that have been duking it out over the past
several centuries -- capitalism, communism, and socialism-- all have focused
on two things: labor and control of the means of production.

Both of these concerns made total sense in terms of world of the Industrial
Revolution and the world that came out of it. Mass production needed lots of
people -- labor-- to create lots of stuff for all of those people to buy.
The means of production were limited because the barrier to entry was so
high i.e. it costs a lot of money to create a factory, buy raw materials,
and then distribute the products made by that factory over a wide geographic
area.

When this is how goods are produced, the arguments made by proponents of
capitalism, communism, and socialism all make sense in their own way. Each
of these systems takes a different approach, but the core of what they're
arguing about is still the same: labor and the means of production.

But there's one important factor pertaining to labor that all these economic
systems take for granted: "labor" is something that can be done by most
adult members of the society because the bulk of what needs to be done
doesn't require any particularly special physical or mental abilities beyond
the ones most humans are born with.

Of course, over time the physical and mental abilities required for
productive labor changed. Machines replaced hands because machines were
cheaper in the long run and easier to manage. The Industrial Revolution
required a higher level of skill than the agrarian times before, and so we
invented public schools to train the basic requirements needed for
productive labor into the workforce and invented the modern system of higher
education to train the people who were going to manage the labor, invent new
products and services, keep workers healthy and productive, or help keep the
ever-more complex intellectual "machinery" of government, the law, and the
financial systems running smoothly.

This system has worked fine, but technology and automation have been slowly
nibbling away at its underpinnings since the beginning, sowing the seeds of
its own destruction. The more sophisticated technology gets, the fewer
humans are needed.

At first these changes replace the labor needed for mass production,
shifting the need for workers to either those jobs that aren't worth
replacing with robots -- service, for the most part-- or jobs that computers
aren't smart enough to do: i.e. "knowledge work." But as automation
technology becomes more sophisticated, more and more of those service jobs
get automated out of existence. As our information processing technologies
become more sophisticated, much of the work previously done by "white
collar" "knowledge workers" is being automated out of existence as well.

Throughout all this, the intellectual bar that one has to be able to leap
over to be a productive worker keeps getting higher and higher and the
number of workers needed keeps shrinking. At one time a high school diploma
was all that was needed to be qualified for many jobs. Then it was a college
degree. Today, entry to high-paying jobs requires , in an increasing number
of industries, a graduate degree. The lesser educated and less
intellectually gifted work service jobs and become the engines of the "gig
economy." For now.

But if you look at the trend vectors, it's clear that what can be automated
will be automated eventually. It just makes (at least in the short term)
economic sense. Bots are cheaper and easier to manage than people. And as
the tech takes over more and more, the gap between those who are employable
and those who aren't will continue to widen because the intellectual demands
required for productive work will continue to increase.

Of course, the big problem with this scenario is that it's unsustainable.
Automating production or outsourcing it to low-cost developing countries
means higher profits through reduced costs... but only if people have money
to buy stuff. If jobs are automated out of existence and people have no way
of making money then it doesn't matter how efficient your means of
production are.

We're now entering a time when the old arguments over economic systems don't
make sense anymore because they're based on assumptions that no longer
reflect reality. Everything's changed and -- barring any great catastrophe--
the old days ain't coming back. We need new thinking about what "labor"
means in a world where humans are no longer needed to do most jobs. We need
new thinking about what "production" means when many of the goods we consume
are virtual and when new technologies bring the means of production to the
desktop. We need new thinking about what "service" means when humans don't
have to be the ones doing the serving. And we even need to rethink what it
means to be a "professional" in a world where many professions can be done
quite well by computers, computers that don't have a need for salaries,
education, or vacations.

Looking at the idea of a universal basic income in terms of the old "as
someone who works, why should I have to pay for people to lay around all
day" paradigm is pretty short sighted and, frankly, disconnected from
reality. Chances are, if those of us in jobs that require a high level of
education and/or a high level of skill acquired after lots of training look
around and are honest with ourselves, we have to ask the question: where are
those people who don't have what we have going to work?

Increasingly the answer is "nowhere."

