Reddit Deggit 1/15/17

To anyone coming from bestof, here is the comment I was replying to. I have
responded to many comments at the bottom of this post, hopefully in an even
handed way although I admit I have opinions yall...  The view presented
by this 1 month old account is exactly how propaganda works, and if you
upvote it you are falling for it.  Read "Nothing Is True And Everything
Is Possible" which is a horrifying account of how the post-Soviet Russian
state media works under Putin. Or read Inside Putin's Information War.
The tl;dr of both sources is that modern propaganda works by getting you to
believe nothing. It's like lowering the defenses of your immune system. If
they can get you to believe that all the news is propaganda, then all of a
sudden propaganda from foreign-controlled state media or sourceless loony
toon rants from domestic kooks, are all on an equal playing field with real
investigative journalism. If everything is fake, your news consumption is
just a dietary choice. And it's different messages for different audiences -
carefully tailored. To one audience they say all news is fake, to those who
are on their way to conversion they say "Trust only these sources." To those
who might be open to skepticism, they just say "Hey isn't it troubling that
the media is a business?"  Hannah Arendt, who studied all the different
fascist movements (not just the Nazis) noted that: In an ever-changing,
incomprehensible world the masses had reached the point where they would,
at the same time, believe everything and nothing, think that everything
was possible and nothing was true. The totalitarian mass leaders based their
propaganda on the correct psychological assumption that, under such conditions,
one could make people believe the most fantastic statements one day, and trust
that if the next day they were given irrefutable proof of their falsehood, they
would take refuge in cynicism; instead of deserting the leaders who had lied
to them, they would protest that they had known all along that the statement
was a lie and would admire the leaders for their superior tactical cleverness.
Does that remind you of any subreddits?  The philosopher Sartre said this about
the futility of arguing with a certain group in his time. See if any of this
sounds familiar to you ____ have chosen hate because hate is a faith to them;
at the outset they have chosen to devaluate words and reasons. How entirely
at ease they feel as a result. How futile and frivolous discussions appear
to them. If out of courtesy they consent for a moment to defend their point
of view, they lend themselves but do not give themselves. They try simply to
project their intuitive certainty onto the plane of discourse.  Never believe
that ______ are completely unaware of the absurdity of their replies. They
know that their remarks are frivolous, open to challenge. But they are amusing
themselves, for it is their adversary who is obliged to use words responsibly,
since he believes in words. The ____ have the right to play. They even like
to play with discourse for, by giving ridiculous reasons, they discredit the
seriousness of their interlocutors.  They delight in acting in bad faith,
since they seek not to persuade by sound argument but to intimidate and
disconcert. If you press them too closely, they will abruptly fall silent,
loftily indicating by some phrase that the time for argument is past. If
then, as we have been able to observe, the ____ is impervious to reason
and to experience, it is not because his conviction is strong. Rather his
conviction is strong because he has chosen first of all to be impervious.
He was talking about arguing with anti-Semites and Vichyists in the 1940s.
This style of arguing is familiar to anyone who has seen what has happened
to Reddit over the past 2 years as we got brigaded by Stormfront and 4chan.
Ever see someone post something that is quite completely false, with a
second person posting a long reply with sources, only to have the original
poster respond "top kek, libcuck tears"? One side is talking about facts
but the other is playing a game.  Just look at what happened to "Fake News."
This is a word that was born about 9 weeks ago. It lived for about 2 weeks
as a genuine English word, meaning headlines fabricated to get clicks on
Facebook, engineered by SEO wizards who weren't even American, just taking
advantage of the election news wave: "You Won't Believe Obama's Plan To
Declare Martial Law!"  "Hillary Has Lung, Brain, Stomach, And Ass Cancer -
SIX WEEKS TO LIVE!"  For a while, it seemed like the real world could agree
that a word existed and had meaning, that it referred to a thing. Then the
word was promptly murdered. Now, as we can clearly see, anyone who disagrees
with a piece of news - even if it is NEWS, not an editorial - feels free to
call it "Fake News." Trump calls CNN fake news.  There is a two step process
to this degeneration. First, one gets an audience to believe that all news
is agenda-driven and editorial (this was already achieved long ago). Second,
now one says that all news that is embarrassing to your side must be editorial
and fabricated.  So who is the culprit? Who murdered the definition of fake
news? A group of people who don't care what words mean. The concept that some
news is fake and some news is not was intolerable, as was any distinction
between those who act in good faith and sometimes screw up, vs those who
act in bad faith and never intended to do any good - a distinction between
the traditional practice of off-the-record sourcing and the novel practice
of saying every lie you can think of in the hope one sticks. The group of
people I'm talking about cannot tolerate these distinctions. Their worldview
is unitary. They make all words mean "bad" and they make all words mean
"the enemy.". In the end they will only need one word.  Responses

This post is so biased. I was ready to accept its conclusions but you didn't
have anything bad to say about the Left or SJWs so it's clearly just your
opinion.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Argument_to_moderation Wrong (sniffle) "Fake
News" actually means ____ instead

No, the term goes back to a NYT investigative report about some people in
SE Eur who "harvest" online enthusiasm by inventing viral headlines about a
popular subject, & who realized that Trump supporters had high engagement. This
is no different than what the National Enquirer does (TOM CRUISE EATING
HIMSELF TO DEATH!) except the circulation was many times more than any
tabloid due to the Facebook algorithm and the credulity of their audience.
But what about the MSM? Haven't the media destroyed their own credibility with
OBVIOUS LIES?? What about FOX News? What about liberals who call it FAUX News?

I remember Judy Miller as well as anyone, people. I also remember
Typewritergate and Jayson Blair. And sure one can always go back to the
Dean Scream or, as Noam Chomsky points out, the fact that Lockheed Martin
strangely advertises on news shows despite few viewers can afford to buy a
fighter jet... there have always been valid critiques of the media. But I am
talking here about something different.  The move of taking a news scandal
and using it to throw all news into disrepute is what this post is about.
Briefly in my OP I talked about the first step of propagandization, which
is inducing a population to see ALL news as inherently editorial and agenda
driven. This was driven by the 24 hours news cycle and highly partisan cable
tv. We have arrived in a world where a majority of people think the invented
term "MSM" (always applied to one's enemies) has any definitive meaning,
when it doesn't. The most-watched cable news editorialist on American
television calls a lesser-watched editorialist on a rival network "the MSM,"
when neither man is even a newsreader. It's absurd.  The idea that the news
is duty bound to report the remarkable, abnormal, or consequential, has been
replaced by the idea that all news is narrative-building to prop up or tear
down its subject. We already saw this early in the primary when the media was
called dishonest and frenzied just for quoting Trump. A quote can no longer
be apolitical! If it's damaging, the media must have been trying to damage.
Once this happens, it is a natural next step to adopt the bad-faith denial
of anything that could be used against you. This is what Sartre talks about;
the "top kek" thought-terminator makes you "deliberately impervious" to
being corrected. Trump denied he ever said climate change was a hoax even
though he has repeatedly tweeted this claim over years; journalists collated
those tweets; and the top-kekers responded by saying the act of gathering
those tweets is "hostile journalism."  Pluralism cannot survive unless each
citizen preserves the willingness to be corrected, to admit inconvenient
facts and sometimes to admit one has lost. In that sense alone, the alt-right
is anti-democracy.  Isn't the Left crying and unwilling to admit they lost
the election? That's anti-democratic too.

I invite you to consider the response of T_D in the hypothetical that Trump
won the popvote by 3 million, lost the Electoral College and it was revealed
that HRC was in communication / cooperation with one of this nation's
adversaries while promising to reverse our foreign policy regarding them.
"Sartre was a dick."

Top kek, analytic tears.  (Real answer: yes, he was but the point still
stands).
