Reddit By: Barton Foley 8/14/17
https://www.reddit.com/r/AskHistorians/comments/6u1lx9/
how_did_banks_work_in_the_soviet_union_were/dlphfbl/

Banking in the Soviet Union was provided by a state run and owned bank,
Gosbank. (Literally, The State Bank.) Gosbank was an interesting entity
that evolved from the Tsarist Russia’s State Bank in that it was a
central bank owned and operated by the government, so the transition to
Soviet control was not as jarring as you might think. Tsarist Russian had
private banks as well, but the State Bank was used in a manner to improve
the Russian economy by loaning money at low rates to industrialists and
facilitating foreign investment in Russia, as well as providing support to
the landed class and industrialists by providing modern banking practices
and facilities. The concept of a bank was part and parcel of many Russian
revolutionaries thinking, Lenin himself was in favor of a single banking
entity. For them a singe banking entity was to be fully integrated into
the centrally planned economy of the Soviet Union by becoming part of the
government apparatus and assisting in controlling the economy in providing
a stable currency and foreign exchange. The bank would be essential to help
keep an accounting of production and distribution of goods, providing the
infrastructure needed to create a socialist society. With a central bank,
you could determine someones ability/contribution, and pay out to their need,
as it were. Now, after the Revolution and Civil War, the existing state bank
collapsed and the modern Gosbank did not arise until the beginings of the
1930’s. It was then joined by Sperbank ("Savings Bank"), the sole bank
for household savings deposits, which earned a positive but very low rate
of interest, Stroibank ("Investment Bank"), was responsible for disbursing
funds to enterprises for long-term investment, according to the dictates of
the central plan and the Vneshtorgbank ("Foreign Trade Bank") which handled
all transactions involving imports and exports. Gosbank operated on what
can be called a “bookkeeping system”. Whenever one state enterprise
shipped its goods to another state enterprise, the Gosbank account of the
"output-enterprise" would be credited, while that of the "input-enterprise"
would be debited.For ordinary workers, there was cash, which was used for
only two purposes. First, the state industries paid their workers with cash
provided by Gosbank (the account of the state enterprise would be debited),
then workers purchased goods with cash, which was then turned over to Gosbank
(the account of the store would be credited). Here is an example by Marc
Liberman to show how this would work in practice: When farm delivered its
milk output, it would obtain a document from the cheese factory verifying
that the latter had received its milk input. The document was then turned
over to Gosbank, which credited the farm's account according to the value
of the milk delivered, and debited the cheese factory's account by the same
value. Likewise, after the cheese was produced and shipped to the State
food store, the cheese factory obtained a document verifying its delivery
of cheese. Again, the document was turned over to Gosbank, which this time
credited the cheese factory's account and debited the store's account. Finally,
when households purchased the cheese with cash, the State store deposited
its cash receipts with Gosbank and was given a credit of equal value.

As you can see, banking was an important part of keeping track of the
production and consumption of a planned economy, every transfer of physical
output from one location to another was mirrored by an associated financial
transfer through Gosbank. If less than the planned amount was delivered on
any given day, Gosbank would know. If delivery were late, Gosbank would
know. If inputs or outputs were stolen and diverted to the black market,
Gosbank would know . (Well, maybe Gosbank would know…) This type of control
was needed for a planned economy, as a result inter-enterprise credit was
simply not allowed; one enterprise could not "lend" bookkeeping money to
another by permitting late payment for goods received. Also, enterprise
accounts with Gosbank could only be used to pay for the type and quantities
of inputs that were specified in the plan. Otherwise, Gosbank would refuse
to release the credits. This control was designed to prevent deviations
from the central production plan. But since the plan itself was often
inconsistent, providing an enterprise with too little of one input and
too much of another, managers in order to meet their output requirements
were forced to develop sources of supply that could bypass Gosbank, sources
that required neither bookkeeping money nor cash. Hence, the extraordinary
adaptive and enterprising Soviet productions managers engaged in an immense
amount of interfirm bartering. An enterprise with excess coal might be lucky
enough to trade it for some desperately needed steel. More likely, it would
trade its excess coal for some rubber that it didn't need, and would then
go about finding an enterprise that had excess steel but needed rubber. Or,
worse still: it would trade coal for rubber, then trade rubber for steel
knives, and finally melt down the knives to obtain raw steel.

As a side note as to cash, state enterprises were forbidden to hold it for
any purpose other than payment of wages, the cash receipts collected by
State stores had to be deposited with Gosbank, and then withdrawn again to
pay the wages of the store workers. The whole process of banking basically
worked like this: State Bank – payments to State enterprises – payment
to workers – payment for retail sales and services – State Bank.

As for imports and exports, all goods produced for export were "sold"
to Vneshtorgbank, which credited the producer's account with bookkeeping
money. Vneshtorgbank would then sell the goods abroad for foreign currency. In
turn, the foreign currency was used to pay for imports into the Soviet Union,
which were then sold to a Soviet enterprise whose bookkeeping monies would
be debited. The authorities could as a result carefully monitor foreign
currency exchange, and ensure that scarce "hard currency" (i.e., freely
convertible currency like U.S. dollars or German marks) was used only for
"desired purposes."

Now, Stroibank the state bank for financing the capital investments
made by enterprises and organizations, basically any industry or state
enterprise for construction outlays, expansion, etc. Stroibank grants these
credits/loans/money to state enterprises, within in central planning limits,
for the reserving of material assets and for outlays on construction. State
enterprises and new construction projects are authorized to place orders
on these credits allowing them to increase their allotment and outlay
of equipment and materials. Storibank did loan money to individuals for
residential construction. So basically as a borrower you would be debited
for the new equipment/work beyond your normally allowed allotment and the
State enterprise doing the work would be credited. So you would have to go
to the bank with list of all the things you needed to expand or build your
project, the bank would review, and if approved you would not be given money,
but would be given the opportunity to requisistion the apporpirate goods
and servces needed. Individuals generally could not get a loan, some were
allowed in the early days of the first Five Year Plans to acquire farming
equipment, seed, maybe housing and such through Selkhozbank (Agricultural
Bank) which was basically a Storibank for farming. However, the State Bank
would at times issue things similar to loans in order to reduce the rate of
savings and to increase production or reduce surplus goods, for example flat
out subsidies for durable goods or long term repayment of credits awarded.

The Development of the Soviet Economic System, Alexander Baykov

The Process of Investment in the Soviet Union, David A. Dyker

Banking in the Former Soviet Union, Marc Lieberman

The Origins and Evolution of the Soviet Banking System: An Historical
Perspective, George Garvy

History of Socialism: An Historical Comparative Study of Socialism, Harry
W. Laidler

