https://www.reddit.com/r/Christianity/comments/88z9sa/i_believe_in_the_literal_physical_bodily/

DavidvonR
I was a skeptical atheist for many years. I probably spent about a year
really examining the arguments for and against the resurrection, and I have
no doubt that the historical evidence for the resurrection is compelling and
robust. The explanation that best fits the historical evidence is that a
resurrection really did happen. 

kiss_the_kalashnikov
Could you give some good recommended reading regarding that historical
evidence?

DavidvonR
In terms of full-length studies, the best pro-resurrection/pro-Christian one
is probably Michael Licona's The Resurrection of Jesus: A New
Historiographical Approach. Honorable mention to Jake O'Connell's recent
Jesus' Resurrection and Apparitions: A Bayesian Analysis.

The best non-Christian full-length study is... honestly I'm not even sure
there's been a truly good one before. Your best bets are probably several of
Gerd Lüdemann's full-length monographs. (I've also heard good things about
Michael Alter's The Resurrection: a Critical Inquiry, but from the little I
know of it I'm actually skeptical.)

"Debate" volumes, each presenting the views of a believer and a
non-believer, include Michael Bird and James Crossley, How Did Christianity
Begin? A Believer and Non-believer Examine the Evidence and William Lane
Craig and Gerd Lüdemann's Jesus' Resurrection: Fact Or Figment?.

Probably the best full-length study that we could call more "neutral" is
Dale Allison Resurrecting Jesus -- particularly the title chapter of this.

In terms of shorter studies, I think I have pretty much every major
English-language of the past few decades listed here -- though beware, it's
in super messy shape. It also has a lot of works that address the broader
philosophical/theological issues around the subject, not just historical
ones.

joeyjojoeshabadoo 
You won't find historical evidence of a resurrection without an agenda
attached to the author.

-Graff-
This is true, but to be fair, it wouldn't make a whole lot of sense for
someone to create a body of works that supports the resurrection but isn't
Christian - Presumably, any of the people who find that evidence compelling
enough to compile it would be Christians, otherwise they don't really find
the evidence all that compelling :P

Grodd
The best study would be an atheist that is expecting to disprove it but
finds evidence that shows otherwise. Weak confirmation of a hypothesis is
nowhere near as convincing as scientist proving their own hypothesis
incorrect.

GunnerMcGrath
That would be The Case for Christ by Lee Strobel. If you want to save a few
hours, you can watch the movie, which is cheesy the way all Christian movies
are, but better than most because it's an actual true story, not some
contrived fiction.

Grodd
Got a tl:dr for his reasoning?

GunnerMcGrath
Basically that when weighing the wealth of evidence for the resurrection, it
was requiring more faith for him to continue disbelieving than it would take
to believe. But honestly your description above is basically word for word
the general description of this book. I'm not saying it will absolutely
convince you, but it is a book in which the author recounts his journey to
bring convinced.

