Drive to kill lest we don't fill our rounds to make the shot.  A means of
consitency and mind balanced.  to an end to bring it together.

Shoot for goals with loving drive towards the unfolding way; keep immersed
spirit of gentle guidence.  Our intention held to the will of things to be. s

-----------------------

Speculate upon our nature; How we danced! Among the ruins of our sensibilities.
Until we fell as falling stars, caught by clouds wherin we lay to look up
at the dream we left, a palace of stars and jewels of galaxies.

At least, that is how I danced.  Whether alone in my mind or together in
authentic compassion of those who cook and sing and write to one another;
Each life a measure of parts; together a song, a story of the things we did.


--------------------- Uplifted myself to heights I dare not aspire.  And what
have I achieved?  A learned working of organization on the different scales
of management.

Between entities and friends, Groups focused, mission oriented, Gatherings an
anarchy of love and determination.  Obligation, gentle coerccion. Presistence
and the drive to please those who I look up to.

Ideas are contagious.  Food the prime attractor.  Drive to kill lest we don't
fill our rounds to make the shot.  A means of consitency and mind balance.
An end to bring it together.

Shoot for goals with loving drive towards the unfolding way; keep immersed
spirit of gentle guidence.  Our intention held to the will of things to be.

------------------------------------- I harbor fulfilment in the outcome of
my short expenditure.  Tis but an introduction to the stresses and hurts and
pains Abundant in mortal life. Tis good to live in an age where the heart
may ache and moan while health and entertainment are good.

Villages raided people slaughtered corporation of the Holocaust. The problem
extermination does not exist in the eyes of our mind.  Ignore and hope human
action can restore the future.

Drive into ideas of self creation and build within the needs of ourselves
With what is given and unfolded on the path of creation.

----------------------------- Awoken in the night to shouts of neighbors
friends. Thunder of hooves and fire glow dangerous heat arises gallopping
dark raised arm, shock of blow. Warm mouth wet singing salty goop, wound
avoiding jaw fallen to knees in mind pulsing pain beats heart sight of fallen
son wretched heart squeezed between fists Impaled, head rush red.
