// Playground

The world was our playground.

 Susal ran down the hall and turned left into the living room doorway, her fingers brushing the door way. She leapt towards the couch, her socks pushing on the rug carpet below. Uylan followed his friend, pausing at the door way before he continued his run. Uylan did not jump onto the couch as Susal did. Rather he crept behind the couch, intending to catch Susal by surprise. His plan failed. Susal, seeing him coming, grabbed a pillow and swung it into the back of his head.

 Pillows were thrown and the sheet covers twisted ...

//Dock

I have been clobber walking through the days and weeks. Not the best practice when one navigates a dock. Pulled into port last week, you see. Finished a task for old man Pete. He wanted to sell blue and brown cloth in the port of Tripoli. Thirty days sailing to Tripoli from Catinia. Aye, Catinia. Now where I walk the docks.

Pete, Peaty, man of ages and of thought. A second father of mine. Asked if I could bring to Tripoli one hundred kilograms of blue and brown cloth.

I had never been captian before, but hell, there is a first time for everything. 
We set sail on a full moon night. Wind was strong and the crew confident. When in power, you feel bright: Aye, that is what I thought on those first nights. The wind was strong, decicions simple, judgement correct. 

Then the storms came. Still the crew was strong. They relied on their captian's judgment. 
I told them to set sails to half mast. I hoped to blow to the edge of the storm. The ship lurched forward  towards a hope that was not there. The force was too much. The bow line snapped pulling one of the shipmen into the raging sea. 

No time for thought. I ordered the men to pull down the rigging. Sail cloth lashed in the wind. One man climbed the mast, but water let his grip slip and he fell to the deck. The sheets tangled themselves and the ship was blown, top heavy, along the walling waves. 


Look around: The breeze seems to take one's sight above the highest of ship masts. Ships, towers, domes, temples and theaters lie open unto the fields and to the sky, and all is glistening in the smokeless air. Upon the Mediterainin swell fisher boats sail, their bows at angle, their crews hanging to the side from sail line sheets.

A woman with cargo on her back jostles me from my idle reflection. Her face is raw, tanned. Hair tight cropped and eyes sharp. She glances back my way then continues behind other crew members. 

// Breeze

Salt sea breeze flutters its way past the sails of ships and towards the city. The main street market through merchant vendors and traders, up a gentle cobble stone way to the steps of the temple of angels. Blue and light brown flags line the walls of the buildings whose windows are open to the warm sea breeze. The merchants on the street barter for spice, cloth, food, gems. They call out to others in a nest of languages. Sailors carry their cargo through the streets moving in ragged lines through the crowd. 

The 