Anti-racist Education:

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prejudice_plus_power



Forward of
https://wac.colostate.edu/docs/books/antiracist/pedagogy.pdf

It was the second grade, Mrs. Whitmore’s class, North Las Vegas, Nevada. It
is one of  the  earliest  memories  I  have  of  the  classroom,  perhaps
the  earliest  I  can  recall  in full detail. It is a memory of racism and
language. Another student and I were working  on  something  at  the
chalkboard,  writing.  The  class  was  busy  with  their  work  at  their
desks.  A  few  were  at  the  small  work  area  in  the  back  of  the
room  where the book shelves sat. Mrs. Whitmore, a white lady, probably in
her 40s at the time, with a thick head of long hair coiled up in a bun, sat
at her desk several feet from the chalkboard. I don’t remember the boy’s
name, my collaborator, only that he was Black (I’ll call him Shawn) and
about my size and stature. I was very short and skinny in school. At one
point in our work, in a half-joking manner through a smile, Shawn called me
a “honkey.” I thought nothing of it, had heard the term many times here and
there. He said it casually, no threat in his voice.Slurs  like  that  were
common  in  the  neighborhood  where  we  lived  not  far  from the school.
We lived in government-subsidized apartments on Stats Street. They  were
small,  made  of  painted  cinderblock,  and  infested  with  roaches.  Each
group of eight apartments formed a grassy courtyard with two trees in the
middle, four apartments on each side. Our doors faced each other. All my
neighbors were Black. I was brown, but in that context, I was considered
white. Race was Black and white, binary, even to seven- and eight-year-olds.
It was the first and last time in my life I was considered white. Poverty
was the equalizer, something everyone knew.  We  breathed  it.  I  still
remember  how  it  ached  in  my  bones  and  stomach  because  we  had  so
little,  but  I  had  no  way  of  connecting  the  having-so-little  to
larger structures of inequality. I had no way of seeing the difference
between my poverty and my escape from it years later, and my Black friends
on Stats and their fewer chances of escaping it. All I or any of my friends
on Stats could do is live with the ache, maybe blame ourselves in quiet
moments. But the classroom was a heterogeneous, liminal space, a space where
poverty might be put on hold, but race? It seemed to matter more, or mean
more. I was coming to racial conscious-ness, but it was nascent.  xii  |
InoueMrs.  Whitmore  immediately  called  us  both  over  to  her  desk  in
a  loud  tone.  “You two, come here!” The class stopped in their tracks. I
could feel their eyes on us. She was clearly upset. Neither of us understood
what was happening. She stood over us, turned to Shawn, and asked, “Do you
know what that word means?” I can still recall the feeling of my skin
burning from the tacit accusation of something. I thought I was in trouble
too. It was confusing for a seven-year-old. Her tone was sharp and
accusatory. She was making an example of us in front of the class. “Do
either of you know what that word means?” We both just looked blankly at
each other, speechless, afraid to say another word. “How would you feel if
he called you the N-word?” Mrs. Whitmore continued to stare down at Shawn
and gestured my way. I knew that word very well. Things became clearer:
oh,he’s in trouble, not me. Still I was confused. What’s the problem? It’s
just a word. No harm done.This was my introduction to the whitely ways of
many teachers to come, teach-ers similar to Mrs. Whitmore with her good
intentions, careful rules to be followed, and determination to treat
everyone the same, even treat the racial epithets we used the same. Shawn
and I were just too young to understand what words like “honky” or “nigger”
meant, how one of them had heavier historical baggage than the other, how
one really wasn’t on par with the other, how honky just can’t hurt me the
way nigger could hurt Shawn. They are both ugly words for sure, but one is
more mag-ical than the other, used historically by whites to degrade and
dehumanize Blacks. Nigger. It’s uncomfortable to even read, to hear in your
mind’s ear. Isn’t it? That’s its magic, a residual effect of a long history
of inequality, meanness, inhumanity.To Mrs. Whitmore, I think, the words
were simply versions of the same kind of  racism.  Her  heart  was  in  the
right  place,  but  her  ears  couldn’t  hear  what  was  happening between
us, or what had happened before that classroom. She couldn’t hear the word
and weigh it against the word she was comparing it to. She could not see
that she was reenacting a familiar racist paradigm, a white authority
harshly punishing verbally (and often physically) a Black body, reenacting
the ritual of a white body in authority, a white body demanding answers when
answering would seem unwise to those being accused. She was a white body in
control of the bod-ies of color around her, a white body using words to
shame the racialized others around her and claim authority over them, even
in matters of racism. Her attempt to be antiracist in her classroom practice
ended up being racist through the strict enforcement of a rule about racial
slurs with no regard to who said what to whom or what racial slur was used,
and no regard to our linguistic privacy.I’m not defending the use of the
term honkey as a slur. I am saying that Mrs. Whitmore, in her rush (and it
was a rush) to stamp out racism in her classroom, didn’t or couldn’t—or
didn’t want to—see that those two racial epithets were sim-ply not the same
thing because of the racist history and structures that we live in, because
of who said what to whom and how Shawn and I came to live differently in
the  same  poverty-stricken  area  of  North  Las  Vegas.  She  never
bothered  to  ask  Foreword  |  xiiiother questions that might have been
more profitable to both Shawn and me. How did  we  use  that  word  at
home,  on  the  playground,  or  in  the  neighborhood?  We  used both words
and many others. Everyone did. We mimicked the language we heard around us.
That’s how language acquisition works, immersion and mimicry. She could have
asked Shawn about how he felt when using it, why he might feel the need to
use it, and how I felt to be called it, and why I might be okay with it or
not. But she didn’t. She could have talked with us about her own constraints
as a teacher, or pressure by her principal or by parents to punish such
language in our classroom. She might have talked to us about how she had to
be a representative of many different, even conflicting, ideas about what
kind of language is appropriate in our classroom. How would our parents feel
about such language? But she didn’t. She  assumed  it  was  simply  a
universally  offensive  word,  that  if  she  was  offended  then I must be,
or that her sense of propriety was the measure of racism in her class-room.
If such a word was used it was used in malice. It was uniformly and always
wrong. She may have thought that perhaps when a Black mouth says that word
it’s always out of malice. A few years later, I’d chalk up such behavior by
whites around me as simply being white, shaking my head and saying under my
breath, “hmm, white people.”I know, this is all unfair to Mrs. Whitmore and
whites generally. She’s not here to  explain  herself.  Any  teacher  who
may  behave  in  such  ways,  who  may  enforce  rules  of  propriety  that
are  meant  to  enact  antiracist  practices  in  the  classroom  are
looking for rules that promote fairness, equality, and safety. The impulse
is the right impulse. It’s the method that messes up things, and how and by
whom the method is enforced. What gets focused on is the word, which becomes
a signifier of intention, an intention placed on the word by a white
authority. The intention gets punished by the white authority. The impulse,
I think, is that if we are all equal we should be treated equally, which
means we should be punished equally for the same class of crimes in the
classroom. The problem is, treating everyone equally doesn’t make us equal.
Furthermore, we can pretend to be equals, but we don’t live in a world that
sets up Shawn as remotely equal to Mrs. Whitmore or me. So when a teacher
treats race as if it is a system of politically equal categories that people
fit or place them-selves into and see racism as when people associated to
one category are slighted or treated differently than those in another, then
the method is unfair. That’s not how racism works. It works by hierarchical
categories, not equal ones. It works by verti-cally uneven relations to
power, not laterally even ones. These things affect rewards and punishments,
and in the academy, rewards and punishments mean assessment and grading,
opportunities and chances, policies and their methods.Am I saying that Mrs.
Whitmore or white teachers should stay out of the anti-racist activism
business in classrooms? No. On the contrary, they should be first in line to
do this work. What I’m saying is that white teachers must tread differently
than teachers of color. One might think of it as cooking in someone else’s
kitchen.  xiv  |  InoueYou  don’t  know  where  all  the  spices  are.  You
don’t  know  what  they’re  saving  for  next week’s dinner. You don’t know
what set of plates or silverware to use. You don’t know  that  their  oven
runs  a  little  hot.  You  don’t  really  know  what  to  bring  and  cook
in their kitchen. I’m reminded of the exchange between Condon and Young in
Condon’s I Hope I Join the Band (2012, pp. 164–176). They discuss the
territory of trust and suspicion when whites engage in antiracist work or
words. Trust is a paradox. We can give it as a gift, free without someone
else’s need to earn it, but it is still really hard to give, maybe harder to
cultivate over time, as Condon and Young agree must happen, because we all
have different relations to the kitchen.Now, Shawn and I were only seven.
There’s only so much critical examination a teacher can expect at that age.
But we were also old enough to use those words in  ways  that  approached
the  nuanced  ways  adults  around  us  used  the  words.  So  we were
assessing language in similar ways, then deploying that language for
par-ticular  rhetorical  ends.  If  Shawn  wasn’t  using  the  word  as  an
insult,  and  I  wasn’t  offended,  was  it  okay?  Should  our  white
teacher  have  simply  minded  her  own  business? Should she have realized
that she was not entitled to comment or preside over our exchange, even if
she was the teacher? Should she have stayed out of our kitchen, at least
this time?I  think  many  good-hearted,  college  teachers  are  like  Mrs.
Whitmore  in  how  they treat race and racism in their classrooms,
especially writing, rhetoric, and com-munications classrooms. They have
their rules about what is appropriate and what is offensive, and implement
them top-down, with some discussion, of course. They implicitly tell their
students, shame on you for thinking that, or doing this thing, or using that
word, with little if any regard for the histories of their students,
with-out understanding the relations those students have to other racial
formations and languages in the classroom, without asking students to
investigate their racialized histories with words, with others, as others,
as whites, as students, as the dominated or the dominating. Students don’t
get to negotiate the grounds of racist actions or their  consequences.  They
miss  the  necessary  negotiation  and  dialogue  in  healthy  and  fairer
methods  for  antiracist  action.  They  miss  the  chances  to  give  trust
and  cultivate it among each other. It’s  an  easy  misstep  to  make.  As
teachers,  we  often  take  for  granted  that  our  authority  granted  by
the  institution  to  teach  a  class,  to  grade  students’  perfor-mances,
to  rank  students  according  to  so-called  ability  gives  us  the  right
to  also  have authority over other aspects of students’ lives, actions,
behaviors, and words. Communication  is  literacy  is  subjectivity  is
identity.  We  say  it  is  our  job  to  help  students “think critically,”
so when we are confronted with a student’s ignorance or racism, we feel we
must name it, critique it, and ask the student to rethink, restate in more
acceptable ways (to the teacher), or at least avoid the discussion because
it’s not okay in this classroom. The ideas offend others (but more
specifically, they offend the teacher-grader), so we think. But do they? Or
rather, how do they hurt Foreword  |  xvothers? Investigating language as
the racially epistemological, or the way in which we articulate, understand,
create, and construct concepts of race and racism, which then affect the way
real live racial formations and racism as structural occurrences in  our
lives  happens,  is  important  work  that  is  the  job  of  the  literacy
classroom.  So  I  don’t  want  to  suggest  that  teachers  who  make  such
missteps  are  completely  misguided. They are not.In one sense, I’m
arguing, much like many of the chapters in this collection do, that
investigating language can promote explicitly an antiracist agenda: what
language we use, how we use that language, who uses it, what purposes we use
it for, what intended and unintended effects or consequences are there for
our lan-guage, how are those effects distributed unevenly across different
racialized audi-ences, in what historical ways has language like ours been
deployed? These are some of  the  questions  that  should  be  inflected  by
race  in  literacy  and  communication  classrooms, and may form the content
of antiracist agendas. Because our world is structured historically and
economically in racial terms, and we find racism every-where  around  us,
these  kinds  of  racially  epistemological  questions  are  important
rhetorical lessons for all students to struggle with?Let me be even more
specific about the kind of antiracist work and agendas I’m referring to that
I think any teacher can do. No matter the kind of course, topic, teacher,
or  group  of  students,  there  is  one  common  thing  that  all  teachers
must  confront in any course: assessment and grading (these are not
necessarily the same thing).  How  do  we  respond  to  the  code-meshed,
multilingual,  heteroglossia  (in  writing and speech) of our students when
language is not normalized, when there is no living “standard” English in
practice, only Englishes performed, only the infinite varieties of Parole
without a Langue (to reference Saussure’s Third Course of Lectures on
General Linguistics). This is something that many have discussed and
affirmed in other ways (Canagarajah, 2009; Lippi-Green, 2012; Lu & Horner,
2013; Young, 2007; Young et al., 2014; Lu & Horner, 2013; Lippi-Green, 2012;
Canagarajah, 2009; Young & Martinez, 2011). These scholars just haven’t
addressed the ways this knowledge about the infinite varieties of English
should be the seeds of an antiracist agenda for all teachers’ assessment
practices. Yes, our assessment practices should be guided by an antiracist
agenda. This means we also might have ideal consequences or outcomes in
mind, goals we hope to see accomplished because of our antiracist agendas,
but we’ll need the help of our students to know this part.Now, let me be
blunt. If you grade writing by a so-called standard, let’s call it  Standard
English,  then  you  are  engaged  in  an  institutional  and  disciplinary
racism, a system set up to make winners and losers by a dominant standard.
Who owns the dominant standard? Where does that standard come from? What
social group is it most associated with? Who benefits most from the use of
the standard? How  is  that  social  group  racialized  in  our  society?
Do  you  see  where  I’m  going  with this? To evaluate and grade student
languaging by the method of comparing xvi  |  Inoueit to some ideal standard
or norm—no matter what that norm is—will participate in racism. Is this
avoidable? Maybe. Do I blame teachers for grading by a domi-nant standard?
No, not completely. We’re often forced to do so. But that’s not a good
enough excuse to continue doing it. If you had to break the law in order to
save someone’s life, wouldn’t you? It’s really the same principle. We know
grading by a standard is harmful and unfair, even unhelpful in teaching
students how to write or communicate, we know that grading itself is a bad
practice for teaching students anything, but we still do it. We still use
standards of language and grades. So  if  you  know  this  now  and  agree,
it  should  make  your  assessment  practices  in the future more troubling,
more problematic in the ways Freire talked about “problematizing”
existential  situations  of  writers  (Freire,  1970),  only  I’m  saying
that writing assessment as a practice should problematize teachers’
existential as-sessment situations.With  statements  like  Students’  Right
to  Their  Own  Language  (Conference  on  College  Composition  and
Communication,  1974)  by  our  national  professional  organizations, we
cannot deny the racialized aspects of students’ languages used in our
classrooms, nor can we deny dominant languages used as yardsticks by which
to measure students’ linguistic abilities, capabilities, thinking, and
competencies. I don’t mean to elide the important pedagogical agendas for
ESL and some multilin-gual students and their teachers in my call for
antiracist writing assessment agendas (see Atkinson et al., 2015). I’m not
speaking of those agendas, which are different. I’m speaking of the majority
of monolingual and multilingual students who come to  the  university
classroom  from  other  U.S.  classrooms  in  high  schools,  who  are  not
learning the rudiments of communication in the language, but learning a new
English,  learning  how  to  “invent  the  university”  in  the  ways  that
Bartholomae’s  (1985)  famous  phrase  suggests,  even  though  I  have
reservations  about  his  argu-ment.  I’m  thinking  about  the
translingual  (Horner  et  al.,  2011;  Lu  &  Horner,  2013) and
code-meshed practices (Young, 2007; Canagarajah, 2009) that all U.S. college
students engage in and that get assessed by teachers according to
monolin-gual approaches—assessment practices that set up many students for
failure.In Marxism and the Philosophy of Language, Voloshinov explains that
language has no “inert system of self-identified norms.” Any language, such
as English, is a “ceaseless generation of language norms.” He goes on to say
that “language presents a picture of a ceaseless flow of becoming” (1986, p.
66). This means that not only is there no authentic living standard by which
we might judge student’s articulations, but if we do use a standard to judge
and rank, to grade, it is arbitrary and a political move  made  by  a
teacher-grader  who  either  misunderstands  how  language  exists  in the
world, or willfully ignores the way language exists in favor of a
comfortable fiction because she thinks she knows what’s best for her
students. The second is a form of whitely ways that disturbs me more than
the first, one based on ignorance. This nature of people’s languaging may
account for why issues of error in writing Foreword  |  xviiassessment  are
so  problematic,  theorized  as  phenomenological  (Williams,  1981)  and
socially constructed (Anson, 2000). It also explains why grading has been
un-derstood as harmful to students’ development as writers and learners
(Bleich, 1997; Elbow, 1993; Kohn, 1993, 2011). Even perceived error by a
teacher, when marked and counted as such, is not simply a superficial move
by the teacher, but a claim about the writer’s languaging and thus the
writer. These claims, depending on how they are couched, and who is making
them to whom, can be racist rhetorical en-actments  that  produce  unequal
social  formations  in  classrooms.  They  can  work  against other
antiracist agendas and projects of the course, such as all the classroom
examples given in this collection.Failure in writing, in learning to write,
in communicating—failure of languag-ing—in  a  classroom  does  not  have
to  be  a  marker  of  racism,  of  course.  I’ve  dis-cussed ways that one
might retheorize failure in learning to write by rethinking the way one
grades and thus the way one responds to students’ writing and students
themselves (Inoue, 2014). This kind of theorizing can lead to antiracist
assessment practices by teachers, which I think is important for all
teachers to do, and it should be  dictated  by  one’s  context,  students,
courses,  and  institutional  constraints.  But  teachers  should  be
mindful  of  the  difference  between  responding  to  one’s  insti-tutional
constraints,  and  hiding  behind  constraints  and  students  in  order
not  to  engage in antiracist writing assessment practices that critique the
racist structures of the academy and institutions we work in. In the end,
each teacher must decide how far he or she is willing to go, what sacrifices
to make, what things to focus on, exactly where he or she stands.The book
you have in your hands offers valuable ideas for writing, communi-cations,
literature, and cultural studies classrooms. The chapters offer a good mix
of the theoretical, the personal, the performative, and the practical (I
realize these are somewhat forced distinctions: why is theory not practical,
or performative not personal?). What I value most about this collection, and
why I’m truly honored to offer this forward to readers, are the various
antiracist agendas that come through each  chapter  so  clearly.  For
several  years  now  in  various  venues,  some  published  (Inoue, 2009;
Inoue & Poe, 2012), some in professional organizations (CCCC and CWPA), I
have argued for teachers, writing program administrators, and journals to
have  an  antiracist  agenda.  In  fact,  I  believe  our  fields’  various
professional  or-ganizations should have explicitly stated antiracist
agendas, with clearly attainable goals and benchmarks, with a philosophy and
vision of what social justice in the organization should be.A helpful
antiracist agenda offers an understanding or explanation of race, rac-ism,
and the particular racial formations that develop in and around the
classroom or program in question. It defines and explains the particular
realms of experience that both individuals and groups find themselves
involved in at that site or class-room.  This  means  the  agenda  may
discuss  how  racism  tends  to  be  a  part  of  the  xviii  |
Inouestructures and mechanisms of grading in writing classrooms, in teacher
feedback, in the ways that the school admits and places students into
classes, in how and what it values in writing and how those values are
related to larger dominant discourses. It explains the particular brands of
whiteness and whiteliness that occur in the class-room and in assessments.
It acknowledges the need and power in telling stories and offering
narratives  about  antiracist  struggle,  counterstories  and  institutional
ones  that may more obviously participate in the hegemonic. These stories do
not ignore the evolving needs of students to participate in the dominant and
hegemonic, even at the cost of anti-hegemonic and antiracist action—we all
have to buy our bread and put a roof over our head. Finally, antiracist
agendas should, perhaps through discussions with students, reveal the
difference in classrooms between feeling safe and  feeling  comfortable.
When  it  comes  to  race,  racism,  and  antiracist  work,  it  is
important  that  everyone  feels  safe,  but  equally  important  that  many
also  feel  uncomfortable. It’s only through discomfort, perhaps pain and
suffering, that we grow, develop, and change for the better.When I think
again about Mrs. Whitmore’s class and Shawn’s use of the word honkey, one
could argue that she made us uncomfortable in order that we learn a valuable
lesson about racism. And in one sense it worked. Shawn and I never said such
words again, at least not around her. It worked because I can think back on
it now and see how her whitely ways reinforced patterns of racism by white
author-ities that I do not want to mimic as a teacher of color—yes, teachers
of color can embody whitely ways. But I believe she created more than
discomfort through her method  (i.e.,  stern  words  and  accusatory
questions  meant  to  shame  and  blame).  The incident was unsafe. Had
either of us felt safe enough to engage in a conversa-tion with her about
our racist language practices, one of us would have said at least a word in
response, but neither of us did. To do so would have risked our safety. And
I’m not exaggerating. Earlier in the year, after having taken allergy
medicine, I felt asleep in class, only to be woken up abruptly by Mrs.
Whitmore shooting a squirt  gun—a  squirt  GUN—at  my  face,  the  entire
class  circled  around  my  desk  laughing at me. It was a terrifying and
confusing moment, one that made me feel eminently unsafe in that classroom.
I never said any words to her after that.I don’t think Mrs. Whitmore was an
evil or unusually mean teacher. I think she was trying her best, but wasn’t
trained to know what to do in a diverse class like ours. In fact, I feel
compassion for her and white teachers like her, wanting to do the right
thing (to invoke Spike’s film title) but not having all the necessary tools
in order to do that work. But then I think about the element of truth in the
old adage, “the road to hell is paved with good intentions.” Antiracist work
in classrooms, as Mrs. Whitmore shows me, is not an easy task. We all will
make mistakes.However, the problems of racism and the linguistic hierarchies
that accompany such  issues  in  the  academy  will  not  go  away  if  most
teachers  and  researchers  do  not have explicit antiracist agendas, if
teachers do not fold those agendas into their Foreword  |  xixassessment
practices in the classroom, if programs do not think carefully about the
ways their program assessments attempt to understand and combat social
inequality of all kinds. How we enact assessment, from classroom grading
practices to program assessment,  is  vital  to  these  social  justice
agendas,  but  the  agenda  is  the  first  step.  The agenda is the
articulated dream, the vision, the goal. It may not articulate what the
“promised land” of social equality looks like or will feel like, but it
points us in the direction. How can we get to where we wish to go if we
don’t know in what di-rection to walk? This book, through various examples
of classrooms and exchanges between  teachers  and  students,  shows  us
possible  directions  for  antiracist  agendas  in higher education, showing
us paths to walk. In short, if a teacher is going to be serious about
antiracist struggle in her classroom, then that struggle should not just be
a reading or an activity or two. It should be, as many chapters in this
collection illustrate, the way the classroom breathes, the status quo of the
class

