Reddit godivaladi

I think most INTJ descriptions are actually talking about ISTJ or, at best,
describe us from the outside and fail to look through our eyes, unlike this one

What do you think? I've highlighted the bits I find most accurate about me.

    COMMUNICATION: They way she communicates is the true indication of her
    type because it is surely a sight you will never forget. Only the INTJ
    and INFJ use a type of processing called introverted intuition and both
    types are rare. In the song Catch by the Cure, the love interest in the
    song is portrayed perfectly in that respect.

    WARNING: Please note that she will initially ignore the pursuer if she
    finds his demeanor attractive and perceives that he notices her.

    She is away and in a different world when she processes what you say,
    she may look through the world around her. The lyrics create an illusion
    to an extended amount of time in which this is occurring, but I assure
    you, she can compress the process into a mere moment. The essence of
    this moment is to just know. It comes from nowhere. Not from experience
    or thought, it is inside. The external shell during the process will
    seem out to lunch. You ask her a question about what she feels or the
    emotional implications and her processing may be in a loop.

    Give her time.

    She may look away. It is important that she knows it is acceptable not
    to know, at least for the moment. The pursuer will be captivated and
    charmed by this unintentional aloofness. Behind the excitement of a new
    love prospect, is a woman caught of guard. It's not that she doesn't feel,
    she just feels so deeply.

    ATTRACTION: The INTJ female is attracted to the unique and brilliant. She
    wants her intellectual senses heightened and her curiosity ignited. An
    intellectual/emotional connection must be made for her to consider any
    further installment of future interactions. She will never take the
    attraction at face value and will look for the hidden implications. Her
    attention may even become a conquest although she is not playing a
    game. Although she loves games, the cards are off of the table when
    considering matters of the heart.

    1) She does not want material goods when she can obtain them for
    herself. 2) She does not want to be engaged with small talk. Get her
    attention by making a passing comment about something that is occurring
    that is not easily observed. 3) She wants to see what is hidden, like
    the unspoken part of your soul. 4) She is unlike any of the women you
    have encountered. Stick to what usually works and watch her walk away. 5)
    Be creative because she is and adores anything of the sort.

    OPERATION: What you find on the internet about INTJ women is usually
    wrong. The majority of the descriptions are that of an ISTJ. Structured
    and detailed? Not in the slightest. Slightly disorganized but a method to
    the madness. She has an uncanny knack to know her way around unfamiliar
    territory. This means she understands more than you think and sees all
    that you hide. She does not need details to catch you in a lie. She
    imagines the big picture and acquires the pieces that fit. Also, she may
    seem quiet and first but if you've captured her attention, she will talk
    about imaginative ideas for hours. She envisions the future and wants
    to plan accordingly. She wants a committed relationship and does not
    want to waste her time on needless searching.
