Now seems like a good time to re-surface a collection of very informative threads that someone posted a while ago.

/u/Intempestivity took the MBTI Step II test at work, then kindly typed out her entire Step II Interpretive Report and shared it here on /r/INFJ. It's awesome! The original posts are 1-2 years old though and have since been archived, so I'm consolidating them all into this new thread in hopes of re-opening the discussion.

 
Anyone else a Questioning INFJ? (self.infj)

I've relatively recently done the MBTI Step II test at work (163 questions, whee), and the result was "Questioning INFJ", which basically means that I feel a need to understand people and their motivations, so I question things, usually based around feelings and observations of a person's actions. Just wondering if anyone else has done the Step II and ended up with "Questioning INFJ"?

 
My MBTI Step II Results; breaking down the Questioning INFJ in to a bit more detail (self.infj)

I thought this might help anyone who is:

a) Confused on type or

b) Wanting to understand a Questioning INFJ better

So, I'm typing out my entire Step II Interpretive Report in the hopes it helps anyone seeking clarity. This particular post will just be on the individual aspects of each function, and how they apply to myself as an INFJ. Keep in mind that there are varying degrees of preference--I came across as high on Introversion, Intution and Judging, and my Feeling was more balanced, but definitely biased towards the Feeling side (clearly). I was out-of-preference for my Questioning-Accomodating facet in the Thinking-Feeling section, which is why I'm a Questioning INFJ. Your out-of-preference facet combines with your reported type to become your individual type description.

The below report is a breakdown of my preferences and how those preferences influence my behaviours and patterns. I also have a second part of the Step II which deals with how to apply Step II to Communication, Making Decisions, Managing Change and Managing Conflict, if anyone would like me to type those up as well--if you are interested in the second half of the report, Part two is now up.
Extraversion vs Introversion

Receiving: (In-preference) Reserved, low-key, are introduced

    Consider social obligations unimportant and leave them to others
    Prefer in-depth discussion about important issues; hate small talk
    May be seen by others as quiet and shy
    Believe it is intrusive to set people up socially and don't want others to do it for you
    Find telephone calls to be unwelcome interruptions
    Prefer to be alone when you do have to make phone calls, especially social calls

Contained: (In-preference) Controlled, harder to know, private

    Keep your feelings and interests to yourself; when you do open up, others take notice
    Are seen by others as hard to get to know because you process so much inside
    Assume others will be uninterested in your thoughts
    Feel capable of solving problems on your own and prefer doing so
    Find it very hard to discuss what upsets you, especially when you are extremely distressed

Intimate: (In-preference) Seek intimacy, one-on-one, find individuals

    Would rather relate to a few significant others than be in a large group
    Draw sharp distinctions between friends and acquaintances
    Seek close, one-on-one, in-depth involvement with others
    Respect others' individuality and want the same respect in return
    Need to trust people before sharing much about yourself

Reflective: (In-preference) Onlooker, prefer space, read and write

    Prefer detached observation, listening and reflection over active participation with the outer world
    Learn better from reading and writing and communicate better through writing
    Can concentrate better on written material than on someone talking
    Feel more secure writing down your ideas than giving an oral presentation
    Remember material better if you read it

Quiet: (In-preference) Calm, enjoy solitude, seek background

    Prefer calm, serenity, even silence
    Are bothered by noisy circumstances and places
    Present yourself modestly and prefer to stay in the background
    Don't feel the need to talk in a social situation
    Find that your contributions are easily overlooked
    Have a calming effect on groups
    Like being with other quiet people

Sensing vs Intuition

Abstract: (In-preference) Figurative, symbolic, intangible

    Like to go beyond the surface and read between the lines
    May use symbols and metaphors to explain your views
    Consider context and interrelationships important
    Make mental leaps and enjoy brainstorming
    May find it hard to identify the evidence for your ideas
    May find it hard to disengage from the tangents you've followed

Imaginative: (In-preference) Resourceful, inventive, seek novelty

    Like ingenuity for its own sake
    Want to experience what is innovative and different
    Are resourceful in dealing with new and unusual experiences
    Prefer not to do things the same way twice
    Readily envision what is needed for the future and enjoy strategic planning
    May enjoy humour and word games based on nuance

Conceptual: (In-preference) Scholarly, idea-oriented, intellectual

    Enjoy the role of scholar and thinker
    Like acquiring new knowledge and skills for their own sake
    Value mental virtuosity
    Focus on the concept, not its application
    Prefer starting with an idea
    Find that practical uses for your ideas may come as afterthoughts

Theoretical: (In-preference) Seek patterns, hypothetical, trust theories

    Trust theory and believe it has a reality of its own
    Enjoy dealing with the intangible
    Like to invent new theories even more than applying your "old" ones
    See almost everything as fitting into a pattern or theoretical context
    Are future-oriented

Traditional-Original: (Midzone) Traditional: Conventional, customary, tried-and-tested; Original: Unconventional, difference, new and unusual

    Don't mind following established and proven methods if they don't conflict with your desire for originality
    Are eager to change procedures that don't work
    Value some traditions in family and work activities
    Prefer an innovative approach but are willing to consider a conventional approach
    Enjoy tradition when it doesn't conflict with your need for novelty

Thinking vs Feeling

Empathetic: (In-preference) Personal, seek harmony, central values

    Focus on how a decision may affect what's important to you and others
    Have a knack for identifying your own and others' feelings about an issue
    Are sensitive to the overall mood in a group
    Believe that following your personal appraisal of a situation is the best way to make a decision
    Weigh positive and negative feelings in a situation and decide on that basis

Compassionate: (In-preference) Tactful, sympathetic, loyal

    Trust your own values as a reliable basis for decision making
    Are in touch with your own and others' feelings and values
    Are influenced by your likes and dislikes in making decisions
    Subjectively decide, based on benefit and harm to the people involved

Questioning: (Out-of-preference) Precise, challenging, want discussion

    Focus questions mostly around people and values
    May use your questioning approach to draw out people's feelings
    Take a mild, agreeable approach when you don't have a strong investment in the issue
    Are typically tactful but can be skeptical, confrontational, and outspoken
    May find that your questions are sometimes misinterpreted as oppositional and contentious
    Are seen as intellectually curious and independent

Critical-Accepting: (Midzone) Critical: Skeptical, want proof, critique; Accepting: Tolerant, trusting, give praise

    Critique selected ideas and actions, especially when they affect people
    Are sensitive to the discrepancies that hurt people
    Clarify what's right and what's wrong in a situation
    May or may not critique out loud, depending on the circumstances

Tough-Tender: (Midzone) Tough: Firm, tough-minded, ends-oriented; Tender: Gentle, tender-hearted, means-oriented

    Take into account both emotional issues and potential outcomes
    Will push those who are reluctant toward action
    Prefer a conciliatory approach in general, but will become tough when the issue really matters to you
    Are devoted and loyal to people close to you

Judging vs Perceiving

Systematic: (In-preference) Orderly, structured, dislike diversions

    Live by the motto, "Be prepared!"
    Plan for the worst-case scenario with many contingencies in place
    Work within a superstructure of efficiency
    Dislike any kind of diversion
    Do not like surprises

Planful: (In-preference) Future-focused, advance planner, like firm plans

    Like to make long-range plans, especially for leisure activities
    Enjoy looking ahead and planning for the future
    May enjoy the planning more than the doing
    Feel that long-range planning makes you more efficient and ensures that things will happen the way you want

Early Starting: (In-preference) Motivated by self-discipline, steady progress, late start stressful

    Allow yourself plenty of time to accomplish an activity efficiently
    Don't like feeling overwhelmed with too much to do
    Arrange your world so you don't have to deal with last-minute rushes
    Work on multiple tasks comfortably by starting ahead of time and working on each task for short, concentrated periods of time
    Can't forget incomplete tasks; feel calm and satisfied when you complete something

Scheduled: (In-preference) Want routine, make lists, procedures help

    Are comfortable with routines and do not like them upset
    Like established methods and procedures
    Prefer to control how you spend your time
    Enjoy scheduling both work and fun activities
    Others may be more aware of your routines than you are
    Seem rather predictable to others but like it that way

Methodical: (In-preference) Plan specific tasks, note subtasks, organised

    Develop detailed plans for the task at hand
    Define the subtasks of your work, including the order in which things should happen
    Thoroughly prepare in precise ways, specifying all the steps needed to accomplish the goal
    Like to work in an orderly and efficient manner
    Are likely to deliver what you have prepared in advance with little deviation

 
Part Two of Step II for Questioning INFJ; applying the individual facets to Communicating, Making Decisions, Managing Change and Managing Conflict (self.infj)

This is part two of the Step II MBTI report for my individualistic type, Questioning INFJ. This part discusses how to apply the individual facets described in part one to Communicating, Making Decisions, Managing Change and Managing Conflict.

I can also provide an overview of the individual facets for each preference, and an overview of the functions if anyone would like? Another resource I have is a book called Introduction to Type and Leadership--this details how specific types act as leaders, the assets and challenges they face as well as how to stretch their inferior functions and a leadership development path. Again, please let me know in comments or PM if you are interested in my transcribing any of this.
Applying Step II to Communicating

All aspects of your type influence how you communicate, especially as part of a team. Nine of the facets are particularly relevant to communication. Your preferences for these nine facets along with tips for better communication appear below.

In addition to the tips in the table, keep in mind that communication for every type includes:

    Telling others what kind of information you need.
    Asking others what they need.
    Monitoring your impatience when other styles dominate.
    Realising that others are probably not trying to annoy you when they use their own communication styles.

 
Effective decisions require gathering information from a variety of perspectives and applying sound methods of evaluating that information. The Step II facets give us specific ways to enhance our decision making, especially those facets related to Sensing, Intuition, Thinking and Feeling. Below are general questions associated with those facets. The facet poles you prefer are in bold italics. If you are in the Midzone, neither pole is italicized.

Sensing

    Concrete: What do we know and how do we know it?
    Realistic: What are the real costs?
    Practical: Will it work?
    Experiential: Can you show me how it works?
    Traditional: Does anything really need changing?

Intuition

    Abstract: What else could this mean?
    Imaginative: What else can we come up with?
    Conceptual: What other interesting ideas are there?
    Theoretical: How is it all interconnected?
    Original: What is a new way to do this?

Thinking

    Logical: What are the pros and cons?
    Reasonable: What are the logical consequences?
    Questioning: But what about?
    Critical: What is wrong with this?
    Tough: Why aren't we following through now?

Feeling

    Empathetic: What do we like and dislike?
    Compassionate: What impact will this have on people?
    Accommodating: How can we make everyone happy?
    Accepting: What is beneficial in this?
    Tender: What about the people who will be hurt?

Six different ways of evaluating information, called decision-making styles, have been identified based on two facets of the Thinking-Feeling dichotomy: Logical-Empathetic and Reasonable- Compassionate.

Your style is Empathetic-Compassionate. This style means that you probably:

    Trust the Feeling preference and readily make decisions based on your system of values.
    May recognise logical cause-and-effect factors but see them as secondary.
    Seek to create and maintain harmony through your decisions.
    Are seen as sensitive and tactful.
    Are sometimes seen as overly solicitous.

Tips

In individual problem-solving, start by asking all the questions outlined above. In group problem-solving, actively seek out people with different views. Ask for their concerns and perspectives.

    Pay careful attention to the answers. The questions that are opposite to the ones in bold italics may be key since they represent perspectives you aren't likely to consider.
    Try to balance your decision-making style by considering the less preferred parts of your personality.
    Do a final check to make sure that all the questions above have been asked and that different decision-making styles are included.
    If you are missing a perspective, make extra efforts to consider what it might add.

Applying Step II to Managing Change

Change seems to be inevitable and affects people in different ways. To help you deal with change:

    Be clear about what is changing and what is remaining the same.
    Identify what you need to know to understand the change and then seek out that information.

To help others deal with change:

    Encourage open discussion about the change; be aware that this is easier for some than others.
    Make sure that both logical reasons and personal or social values have been considered.

Your personality type also influences your style of managing change, particularly your results on the nine facets below. Review the facets and tips for enhancing your response to change.


In working with others, conflicts are inevitable. People of distinct personality types may differ in what they define as conflict, how they react to it, and how they reach resolution. Although sometimes unpleasant, conflicts often lead to improved work situations and enhanced relationships.

Part of conflict management for every type includes:

    Taking care of getting the work done while maintaining your relationships with the people involved.
    Recognising that all perspectives have something to add, but any perspective used in its extreme and to the exclusion of its opposite will ultimately impede conflict resolution.

Some aspects of conflict management may be unique to your results on six Step II facets. The table below explains how your results on these facets may affect your efforts to manage conflict.

 
Your Facet Result 	Conflict-Management Style 	Enhancing Conflict Management
Contained 	Attempt to solve the issue yourself and keep your reactions inside. 	Be aware that trying to solve this on your own may be successful, but that others also may really need your input.
Intimate 	Rely on yourself or a few trusted others in resolving the conflict. 	Widen your circle to include others affected; they may have something valuable to contribute.
Questioning 	Ask many questions of others to reveal all the issues in the conflict. 	Be aware that people may take your questioning style as challenging rather than helpful in resolving the issue; be clear about your intent.
Critical-Accepting Midzone 	Look for both what's wrong and what's right. 	Point out both of these sides in a kind way.
Tough-Tender Midzone 	Wait until the group has tried to reach consensus; if it doesn't, push for your own way. 	Monitor the timing of when you give up on consensus and push to action.
Early Starting 	Believe conflicts can be avoided by starting work on projects early. 	Make allowances for people for whom starting early is not comfortable or effective.

 

In addition to your facet results, your decision-making style (as explained earlier) affects how you manage conflict. Your decision-making style is Empathetic-Compassionate. You are likely to focus on taking person-centred values into account, believing that others who do not are insensitive. To make your efforts to manage conflict more effective, be aware of two possible extreme responses--giving in before others know your views or insisting that your way be followed.

 

Few more nuggets of insight about the "Questioning INFJ" sub-type can be found on this other archived thread.

 

Edit: Found another tidbit about Step II MBTI from OP on this thread.

 

Thank you /u/Intempestivity! Please let me know if you need me to remove or modify this in any way.

