After highscool David spend four years at Cuesta College in San Luis Obispo
before deciding to pursue Computer Engineering. During that time David took
classes in mobile and web development and simple industrial control.

David first realized he liked software when he created a motion detection
application for an Android phone. David only had a basic C class before hand,
but with the encouragment of the instructor he jumped into the sea of the
Android SDK. At the end of the course he had a "Wow" realization that engineers
do cool stuff.

During my last two years at Cuesta I receieved an internship at NASA JPL and
worked on a model based flight software system. This introduced me to git,
softare patterns, shell applications, build systems, autocoders, software
testing, application and systems development, event driven software,
multithreaded programming, real time graphical visialization, and CCSDS file
uplink and downlink.

While the technical learning experiance was incredible  the best experiance in
his mind was participating in the technical meetings. Being on the periphery of
such high functioning individuals became a large motivation to build a solid
technical foundation.

David transfered into UC Santa Cruz in the Fall of 2016.

During the Summer of 2017 David was asked to return to NASA JPL. He was tasked
to re-develop the flight software framework's ground control system server.
Python ZeroMQ middleware technology was used to support dynamic, many-many,
ground to satellite communications with plugable packet protocol translation.
David also developed a C++ ‘ZmqRadio’ component that enables robust
communication between embedded systems and the new server.

David was initiated into Tau Beta Pi in the Fall of 2017.

He completed CMPE 118, Mechatronics in the Fall of 2017. During the final
project his teammates introduced him to motion profiling and the discrete
derivative. Motion profiling was used to perform smooth and predictable
manuvers. The discrete derivative was used to locate the peak of a signal.
While these tools are not ground breaking in themselves, but David thinks their
introduction is highly motivating. 

His future interests are robotic systems and control. He intends to continue
studying computer engineering in UC Santa Cruz for graduate school.
