Dear Liz,

There is a waffle filled plate in front of me. I write with my right and
and ease warm, fluffy pieces of waffle into my mouth with the other. Mhh
life is wonderful.

Just earlier I went on a walk through the rain. On my excursion I met someone
who’s verbal marketing for alms was impressive enoigh for me to grant him
some cash. Either way, I would have wished the fellow a nice day.

Eventually I ended up at a small coffee show where I decided I needed to
re-organize my thoughts.  Naturally I do this often, but lately I have
been wandering around, taking up projects, books, without decisive aim. My
motivations, visions, and aspirations have become outdated.

So over a cup of coffee I began a journey into a world of possibility.

Possibilities of the immediate and days to come. I realized yet another
obvious truth. The truth that the possibilities in our lives come from our
developed and recognized ability. E.g: When we were younger our abilities
were more limited and the possibilities were equally limited.

Equally important to our developed abilities is our recognition of ability. Of
what use is anything we learn if we do not recognize that we can be taken
seriously. That we have a nice in the world and that the world is ours to
change. That we do not have to wait in line to take charge of the existence
around us. It is through this recognition of ability, current and potential,
that I started to update the vision for myself, which had become outdated.

Before I bored you about that, let me step back and add several other things
in regards to the development of ability. For the sake of mental continuity
it might be best to skip this segment and continue on the my improved vision.

I forgot to add that I also think we can learn anything. But to be most
effective and motivated one must find which abilities excite and stimulate. For
myself that is technology. Now, as much as I dislike to complain, I will
briefly scorn our culture of consumerism and how it  negatively affects the
perception of education.

I cannot tell you how many times I get dragged into the dullest of
conversations.  “So what major are you?” … ”So what do you want to
do with that?”… ”Yea…I’m getting my GE’s out of the way.”

I think it is so silly that we students are conditioned from middle school
to think that this is the only line we can take. That the only purpose of
a degree is to show employers that you have “ability”. The ridiculous
idea that college is for the development of a singular ability. That being
a Mechanical Engineer, Biologist, Computer Scientist is one ability. The
insane idea that GE courses have nothing to do with this :singular ability:
That english courses are boring, that Philosophy cannot be applied…

Individually these courses are not claiming they are useless….it is the
culture of post-industrial consumerism that is the main proponent of these
ridiculous ideas. What I am claiming is that the culture of consumerism
has negatively affected the perception of education and the purpose of
education. Education is NOT the process of getting ready for a job. Education
IS the process of personal development, the development of character, of
ability and of knowledge…and the recognition of what can be done with all
these personal components. And all that can be done is personal ability,
immediate and potentially.

So this past year of college has been a search to find out what I can do. And
what I can do, what you can do, what so many other people around us can do
is: Anything.

Elon Musk: Normalizing electric vehicles.  Mark Lamb: Making Bitcoin a common
place commodity

The anything I want to do is help our world integrate 20th century
infrastructure with the present and upcoming capabilities of the 21st century.

I have confidence that what ever I do it will be successful.

The world is ours Liz.

Thoughts like these make me appreciate our social standing. We are
privileged. We are so damn privileged to be in the positions we are in right
now. To be supported by loving parents. Not to have to worry about “real
things”. Yes, most of the things we worry about are silly. And recognition
of this privilege helps me to make the most of what I have.

Damn it. I wish I had the will to write every night. It is now 9:45. I drank
that initial cup of coffee at 6:00PM. After that I left that particular
coffee shop and wandered around town mulling over the thoughts I just placed
onto paper.

Miss you dearly,

David
