Random throughts from these past days:

Underlying social concern lays the structure of society:
Industry and commerce. 

Large conglomerates run society. This machine has consumed us and we are it's gears. Reps know this and have won because they promise to oil the gears and to keep running the machines that dig into the earth: The machines and trucks that let us live and prosper in the current mode of social operation.

The current mode had won. 
Dapl will go through. Keystone will go through. 
Because alternatives were not convincing enough. 
Because alternative energy storage cannot run the current mode of social operation. Besides, alternatives can't run bulldozers or trucks.

As long as conventional development continues there will be a demand for WonderBread, Safeway, and Chevron. So long as stucco housing apartments are built we will demand such things. What we see now is that conventional development is optimal under current rate energy usage. 

Perhaps this is the challenge of our lifetime: To become independent of the current power structure. That does not happen by drawing lines and identities. 
This happens by planning and doing:

By building alternative housing, by building energy storage, by building new transportation, by making bread, by growing food, by selling goods. All this at it's best scale. 

This seems to be the only way to fight the machine: To pull out it's foundation. It's foundation is our own consumption and way of life. Fighting the machine headon has failed. 

I hope to think we can undercut mainstream economy with one localy optimal and streamlined.

Where are the economists doing research? Where are the engineers bringing good ideas to market? We live in the 21st Century yet we are lacking with 


I don't think monetary distribution can last in America. Things will continue to flip-flop. 


The electorate of the nation voted to keep this conventional development under the hopes that the nation will prosper. 

We did not choose our position and must make the most of what we have. 

50% of the nation seem to believe government can spur prosperity.
50% of the nation seem to believe government cannot spur prosperity. 

Social structure solidifies if certain ideas are developed and perfected. The engine and fuel is perfect in it's utility. Upon these things we have engineered our world: Roads, trade, supermarkets, $5 shirts. 
-------

Half the population feels alienated from the conversation of progress. Half the population feels targeted because of their conservative culture. So much so they elected a bafoon.  

Half the population has expressed frustration and despair and it is our job to listen and ask: What do you value? How can we work together?

There is so much frustration with the left that the whole government has become red. It is outrageous! And we must ask why. 

It is easy to say slap a label on half the population as racist, sexist, privileged and say Trump was elected b/c people are ignorant. 

No, Trump was elected because the divide between political parties is so deep and the right's animosity of the left so massive that a bafoon was able to ride the pendulum into office. 

But that is a conversation for another day.





What a nice idea. We could take back the means of production and rid ourselves of large conglomerates. The machine has consumed us and we are it's gears. 

Reps know this and have won because of promises to oil the gears and to keep running the machines that dig into the earth: The machines and trucks that let us live and prosper. 

As long as conventional development continues there will be a demand for WonderBread, Safeway, and Chevron. So long as  stucco housing apartments are built we will demand such things.

The market has given us more than we can dream and entangled us in visions of convenience and self creation. We were born into this society and are connected at the root. We will limp in this state lest we take back soil of society.

Social structure solidifies if certain ideas are developed and perfected. The engine and it's fuel is perfect in it's utility. Upon these things we have engineered our world: Roads, trade, supermarkets, $5 shirts.

Now we must reengineer: Initiate, design, and develop better alternatives to the production and distribution of goods and services. 

Yet we must acknowledge scale and implement design changes as is optimal. Better, independent forms of development are available at different levels of energy use. What we see now is that conventional development is optimal under current rate energy usage. 
Oil is power and America is addicted.

Perhaps this is the challenge of our lifetime. To become independent of the current power structure. That does not happen by drawing lines and identities. 

This happens by doing. By building alternative housing, by building energy storage, by building new transportation, by making bread, by growing food, by selling goods. All this at it's best scale. 

The current mode had won. 
Dapl will go through. Keystone will go through. 
Because alternatives were not convincing enough. 
Because alternative energy storage cannot run the current mode of social operation. Besides, alternatives can't run bulldozers or trucks. 

Yet there are cooler ways to do things. And California will lead the way. 

We will blow up mountain tops and build a Lithium economy to power transport and tools.

Local energy storage will enable decentralized township.

Hyperloop technology will be a platform for lean, demand based manufacturing.

AI, cheap robotics will enable automation and service in ways we cannot conceive. These things we sell to America.

The future of transport is smaller, faster, local.
The future of food is fresher, cheaper, more convenient. 

The society of the 21st century be slick. Should we take the integrated circuit and permaculture as our model we move in the right direction. 

Now we have to do it. Study useful stuff and do it. 


My hope is in goodness and what is to come.
