April 29, 2013
7:33PM
Poly fields, looking up towards the grade

Managed to wander off to a sit-spot along one of CalPoly's fields. Went off not
expecting to find a place of peace, and yet here i am, blowing my nose for a
hobby, while observing a lone ladybug traversing the seams of my pants. An
explorer no doubt. 

And I knew I would eventually admit: Robert Frobisher's letters have inspired
me. Inspired me to narrate my oh so eventful life. Who knows, perhaps I will be
able to convery my all encompassing excitement for life's potentials. I just
pray I don't do so in a cliche manner.

So this entry is addressed to my unknown lover. No doubt at least that much is
certain if you, my dear, are reading this.

And so...I will spark up a cigar, and attempt a narration; the fields and hills
my literary audiance.

Why do I smoke on occasion? An illusion of sophistication?  Company? I cannot
say. But Lord knows I enjoy it.

There runs a girl just yonder. Despite her distance, she is experiancing what I
am.  Her mind blank, she, like I, runs from that setting we all are obliged to
participate in.  As hard as I try, I cannot seem to penetrate her experiance.
For our experiance are exclusivly our own, are they not?

I would like to think so.

Anyways, I have had greatness thrust upon me today. I was officially coranated
to co-president of Cuesta Grassroots. The club as of now is this: A collection
of like minded individuals seeking refuge from the world.  No, I am being
unfair. That is an apt description of myself, but without the implied fear...I
choose what I do. 

So yes, I am not responsible for the course of this group. Strange thing
responsibility.  So often it comes as a natural addition to life. One barely
seems to notice. Or perhaps such a feeling is reserved for those
predispositioned to hold it. Or perhaps I am being old fashioned. 

My cigar is almost out. Pity these things last for a short finite.  Like my
tounge's tolerance to the smoke.

But it would not be proper to leave without giving Robert Frobisher his due.
But what of him?

~ The 8 o clock bell has chimed. ~ 

He was a man who refused to live life to the poetic meter of circumstance. He
lived free, yet with his heart fettered to things about him. He transposed his
dreams to music, giving his life as recompense for it's beauty.

A short, sweet, description. He could have appreciated that.   

And alas, the inevitable return. That is alright, the sun is settings anyways.
Back to the world I do not understand. And I shall not try to either. At least
not the surface of things. 

