
And yet another week has slid by.  I sit here in an air conditioned convinience
store trying to reach my eloquent imaginatio; it is hidden beneath the sediment
of artificial food, prolonged idleness, and social cynicism. 

Everyone who walk in here is mentally under-par. who chooses to stop at a gas
station for nutrition? All the while, I gorge myself with gummy worms and
burritos that could survive a fallout. 

It is not so bad when I alone watch over the legions of packaged food. However,
I cannot helt but feel irritated when someome walks in and the unseen emmisary
of duty bids me to become attentive to their insignificant, and yes a gas
station pitstop is insignificant in the grad scheme of their lives, to their
actions and requests. 

It is this contrast between the customer's mundane motivations: Motivations of
snack choice, geographic assistance to the restroom, and my own duties of
overwatch that contribute to my temporary decrepitude. 

And the only driving force behind my employment? Money.  Goes to show how
little money can be worth.

By the end of my shift I feel run down. I have gained nothing except my
mediocre pay. Mentally and physically I an stunted by such dramatic idleness.
There are greater thing happening in this world...and I must witness the least
of them behind this counter.

And yet, it is my choice to stay and toil week after week. To gain several
increments of independence. To weem myself of my parental crutches.  Was that
not the original inspiration?

But is a little extra independence worth an overload of cynicism?

And what a persistent poison it is! I just started some music and God
forbid!...  I was enjoying myself. Cynicism is one of those diseses that clings
on, for you become so used to the feeling, anything apart from it feels
unnatural.

I need to live more. My heart is tied down by imaginary fetters. What those are
I do not know. What I do know is that I need to write more. I need to express
what I cannot normally express. To explore worlds unseen.

~sigh~

The art of life...what is it's secret?
