The past few weeks have been some of the most satisfying in my life. The
transition of ideas to action is exhilarating. Things have bee working out in a
smooth an efficient manner; Like clockwork. I feel invincible. I still do in a
way...The realization of power and what can be done with it is a point that
everyone needs to reach. I will also add: A point to be reached and a path to
be decided. Power can plant seeds, good or evil. For me this realization has
given me a type of energy I have never felt before. So yes, I am happy.

But in the back of my mind, and sometimes in the forefront, I have a deep
desire to share my love of life with someone. Share it with more than just a
friend. I wish to find someone who can cecome intimate with my hopes, fears,
ambitions; and I with hers. There is an aching longing to be understood and to
understand someone. To experiance a mutual and shared understanding of each
other, stripped from the things we surround ourselves with. Oh how I wish to
look at a honest and guitless fnace and comprehend her emotions and mine and my
emotions as hers. 

To find someone who will look into  my eyes and feel the pride I have for my
achomplishments, while I take pride in hers. Someone who takes interest in my
motivations and I do in hers. Oh lover, when will our paths cross?

I have a shadow over some of my mind; one that darkens my hope of ever finding
someone to share my life with. I think that since none has come my way, I must
be uninteresting. That I am not worth anyone's time. That while I am heard by
many in the projects I work on, there is no one once those projects are closed.

So while I an happy, I am also lonely. Well, emotionally lonely; There is no
one to share my excitement with. 

Awesome! I realize how stupid I have been. My romantic self has overlaid my
highest romatic values over my current situation I am in.  Idylic...I know.
Well, my relationship with Alisa is still young. It is stupid to stress over
someone you have hung out twice with.
