Sorry about my long overdue next entry! Things have been a little hectic this past week in gearing up for my departure from China and then getting settled back into the United States. I figured I'd rather take my time to post meaningful content than make mediocre content for deadline's sake. Without further ado:
This is my third entry in a new series I've started called "Albums For Life," where I review a musical album of personal interest each week. I figure one day down the line I might be able to string enough of these together to make for an interesting book.
“When I get compared to artists like José González or Bon Iver, I can't help but think, 'I've been doing this since they were in third grade.” – Mark Kozelek
***
Entry #3: Benji, by Sun Kil Moon (2014) 
Reviewed by Michael Bassette
This is one of my favorite things in life, ever.
An album that leaves you happy to be crying, “Benji” is best approached head-on with all the humanity and vulnerability one can muster. It’s a vivid, compassionately woven tapestry of Mark Kozelek’s (aka Sun Kil Moon) most pertinent emotional experiences. Their presentation is so immersive, that if Kozelek should develop retrograde amnesia and have nothing but a copy of this album, its contents should be enough to recreate his most intimate memories, affections, and psycho-emotional remarks.
Would Kozelek’s family be keen to listen? Some of his songs feel like getting into a frigid car on an icy, early Winter morning - one when the heater can never start working too soon, sporting all the layers we can to protect from our nakedness. As Winter may never escape the cold, Kozelek may never escape melancholy. But “Benji” offers both affliction and remedy: the cold Winter of Kozelek’s life, and the eventual warmth of his finding fulfillment.
The basic lyrical format of these eleven songs is extended narratives marked by superficially mundane but essential details, all of which point toward the internal insights Kozelek wanted to ponder with us. A characteristic example is on “I Watched The Film The Song Remains The Same,” where he recounts an elementary school episode wherein he’s baited into punching an undeserving classmate, his grin belying his internal disgust. On “Dogs,” he covers his sexual experiences in increasing depth. The story of each woman is a strange snapshot of detail imbuing in the listener a feeling of dissonance, as if uncomfortably remembered by a third party a lifetime away. Listening to Benji is to occupy Kozelek’s mind, and to be distanced from the world by his immediate everyday details.
Like a scrapbook from a back-alley art gallery, “Benji” is drowned in outside-the-lines personalities. Kozelek is smart enough to recognize that a full life includes an array of colorful emotions, but he intentionally chooses to paint mostly in grayscale. It works. He provides just enough detail to establish a scene, but not enough to dominate the listener’s free interpretation, and his reliance on the characters themselves for metaphor leaves enough space for listeners to see themselves in his journeys. On the haunting “Jim Wise,” for instance, Kozelek biographies a friend of his father, who lived a normal life until mercy killing his hospital bed-ridden wife, only to have the gun jam once turned towards his own skull. Jim is put on house-arrest awaiting trial, with a catheter of his own, a knee replacement, and “a bright red cardinal outside on an empty bird bath” - recalling tearfully to Kozelek and his father how much his wife loved the backyard garden and its budding rosebush. It is in these moments that Kozelek demonstrates the power of sadness, and how it often teaches us much more about love than happiness ever could.
Although its overall balance on the depressed/manic scale reads somewhere between dismal and melancholy, “Benji” isn’t a total downer. “I Love My Dad,” a compilation of Kozelek’s Dad’s most noteworthy advice for his son, is almost comical. And while it may be the only truly “light” song on the album, it is not the only one both wholesome and good-natured: “I Can’t Live Without My Mother’s Love,” “Micheline,” “Carissa,” and “I Watched The Film The Song Remains The Same” come to mind. We can’t escape the reality that people die (as many do in these songs), but Kozelek’s in-depth, loving detailing of the lasting impressions their lives left behind is his way of saying that every intricacy, every amount of context is necessary to capture the full beauty of life. "Benji" embraces humankind, despite all its ineptitudes and unbecomingness, and compellingly addresses our common grievances with a tender, albeit somber, love. And the richness offered by such an example inspires me to do the same.
***
Starter Tracks: 
1) I Love My Dad
2) Truck Driver
3) Micheline
My Favorites: 
1) Carissa
2) Jim Wise
3) I Love My Dad
*Starter Tracks?*
Highlights for those on the clock: the album in 10 minutes or less. These tracks may or may not be the singles, but most definitely are the cream of the crop: representative snapshots of the work. May or may not be for the faint of heart.