I've decided: I'm starting a new series called "Albums For Life," where
I review a musical album of personal interest each week. I figure one day
down the line I might be able to string enough of these together to make
for an interesting book.  To paraphrase Robert Christgau, “Two things:
you must know what you like, and explain why you like it - even if it's the
most disgraceful reason.” ***

Entry #1: Lonesome Crowded West, by Modest Mouse (1997) Reviewed by Michael
Bassette


It's a green traveler’s tour de force, and self-indulgent deities’ mistakes
predestine the course of mankind’s fruitless, directionless musings. Cities
and malls come, get demolished, and come right back again without a principle
changed. Maybe some deathly gray primer will actually attract some customers
this time around... Don’t they ever learn? “Match of the century: absence
versus thin air.” This scattered narrative arose from the problem getting a
little too close to home for Isaac Brock’s liking. People take it all sorts
of different ways, some shoot their rifle in the sky in protest, some barely
manage to escape with the beautifully sentimental and helpless feelings of
disenfranchised youth unknowingly approaching wholeness. An album like this
both details and results from fighting: 1) the destiny of misguided cities
and their transient residents to expand, and 2) the god propagating it by
lack of intervention.

Where civilization meets emotion, violent outbursts are the mark of honesty
when their maker’s character is coupled with the humbleness necessary for
a genuine apology.


Travel is a necessary element of life for Modest Mouse, and however
uncomfortable and lean it may be, it’s still probably more peaceful to
them than whatever home inspired them to write this. The sad chirping of
the high guitar in “Trailer Trash” recalls the early sharing of somber
childhood delicacies in the context of trailer-bred nihilism and uselessness.

 How authentic does productivity seem to a child when emotional neglect is
 the consequence it leaves behind? How endearing must life seem when its
 only dealing is in absences?

 The most insulting thing to be done here is filling that absence with a
 bunch of the same trivial crap over and over again, spitting in the face
 of the mindfulness and useful innovation that may actually one day provide
 much needed wholeness.


For greater understanding, Modest Mouse probably could have done a better job
of clearly translating more resolved feelings regarding their plight, but
the vagueness is in the good spirit of travel they embodied at the time. I
wouldn’t have it any other way, and I’m glad they have the intelligence
to let that philosophical parallel between music and their lives manifest.


*** Starter Tracks: 1) Trailer Trash 2) Heart Cooks Brain 3) Bankrupt On
Selling My Favorites: 1) Trailer Trash 2) Convenient Parking 3) Jesus Christ
Was An Only Child *Starter Tracks?* Highlights for those on the clock: the
album in 10 minutes or less. These tracks may or may not be the singles,
but most definitely are the cream of the crop: representative snapshots of
the work. May or may not be for the faint of heart.
