Fall 2014

Hopelessness.
	Dispair.

A mangled, dark, hooded figure, crouches in the shadows of some alley

It snarls several
	-harsh
		-cut four letter verbs…
Spat into a festering verbal salad of
	complaint.

The hunched figure is the sage of our time.  The wise-man. His filosophy
supersedes all.

What fools they are,
	The ones who dwell in the light.  What do they know about life?
The figure spits.

It is fond of mumbling black tar bubbling phrases of
	Should be
		Should be
			Should be.
l And on occasion the hunched hooded figure limps out of his sanctuary to
vandalize something of the world he despises.

CRASH goes a brick through a car window.

“That should show them”,
	The hunched hooded figure sneers as he creeps back into his holy
	place of cynical worship.  He is granted a moment of satisfaction
	from the idea that his act of rebellion will be		 one that
	servers as a beacon:
			One which only the enlightened may see.
	It hopes that his act will draw into his dark temple more disciples
	to accompany him in his senile brooding.

Within it’s chest a mangled heart pulses with the rise and fall of countless
tragedies.  It’s soul screams for the redemption of a ravaged world.

Yet, these tragedies are real. The suffering and pain is real.	Is the man
not justified in his dismay?

—

Upon a hilltop terrace sits another man.

Who, too, sees certain industries, Shaped like the grid of the city,
	Upon which he looks.

Institutions built on sand.  Kingdoms established by driving rebar into the
area where ocean meets land.  For the moment their kings and queens enjoy
their plutocratic luxuries.

Until the corporations and institutions with no root, Begin to crumble down
the slope of a new land formation breaking through.

—

What nonsense another man thinks, A is A and B is B.

There is nothing romantic or fancy
	About the way the world is structured.
Nature is cold, brutal, unforgiving.  The antelope feels fear and most
intense pain when
	the lion rips open it’s throat and breaks it’s neck.
Maggots feast on the remains of the decomposing body, While flies transmit
crippling disease that kill children in developing countries.

Where is the beauty in such cruel devices?  Forever searching, forever hoping,
will you be: the romantic.

Roland of Gilead?  Wordsworth or bloody Herman Keyserling?  Searching and
searching for little pink flowers between the rocks of a cold mountain peak.

Will you find whatever you seek? Will you find your one true love?  Or be
disappointed because you can never find enough?

The economic-political ship is so huge, do you really think hippy rebellion can
	make the ship move?
Look at fucking Jerry Rubin who make such jest of the Chicago Court of Justice.

Running on the oak tables of the court room, Making the professional
lawmakers fume, Because of the ideology that the current system is so bad.
The narrative that Wall Street pigs are destroying the land.

And look at what happens in a few years!

Mr. Rubin becomes one of the gears!  Mr. Rubin becomes a Wall St Banker.

Because he knows economy is the true measure of progress.  End of that story.

A is A.  All hail Ayn Rand.  —
