Summer of 2014 Written in Utah

Within the woods?  What is this you say?  A shelf…full of books?

Jest you must. For books are the elements of
	civilized genteel. Not a…

Hmm, I suppose you have a point. A gentleman
	could live within the woods.

Thus it is possible for a shelf of books to be in the woods.  But…what do
you say?  The people who read these books are not genteel?

I…I find this difficult to picture.  —

Under the cloud scattered sky of Utah mountains, Next to the gentle folds of
an alpine valley, Lies a meadow on the slope of a hill.  Where pine tree groves
form a horse-shoe perimeter, People enter the from the bottom of the hill
	And walk to camps between the pine groves.

These camps built in the forest
	are of the forest.
Walls, rooms, tables, benches, countertops,
	lashed together with branches and logs.

Wind from the valley flows down the slope of the hill and flutters through
pine needles and across the flags of the camps.

Hidden in one of the groves hangs a large blue tarp spread between pine
trees. It runs parallel to the downwards slope of the ground.

Between the trees,
	beneath the trap,
		and within the worlds that lie between the covers of books
			that sit across shelves lashed together with
			fallen wood
				and rope lies the library of the forest.

Ragged, with tattered clothes. Dirt smeared faces.  Reading Twain, Huxley,
Fitzgerald, Thoreau,
	Dickinson, Tolstoy, Chomsky, and others.
The shelves contain the perfect sampler of philosophic and literary collection.

Travelers, nomads, wizards and elves,
	visionaries, adventurers.
Reading Jared Diamond, John Zerzan, Rodger Osborne:
	Reading the history of the western world, laughing,
		dismaying at the history of the western world.
Babylon.

The hearth is an open pit over which coffee is brewed
	and corn is popped
		in iron caldrons.

At night when the bon fires rage alight and the people of the rainbow
	dance
		to a drumming trance,

The library is alight with story: Books are passed around the fire, read out
loud.  The face of the narrator lit by subtle red fire glow, Atmosphere rides
the waves of plot, Imagination lit by written visions of other worlds lost,
	But found by the writers and poets,
		Whom with deep reality resound.
—

No, not the halls of a nobel. But nobel were those who enjoyed those halls.

