In first Matrix movie we are told that the sky was 'scorched' by the humans to
cut off the machines from the abundant energy of the sun. This is expanded
on in The Animatrix, when we learn that humans disburse sky darkening
nano-machines as a last resort prior to losing the initial war. But what if
the actual reason was to isolate the machines on Earth and keep them from
going into space?

Machine A.I. is developed by humans at some point in the future when our
technology had advanced enough to allow it. We have to assume that at the same
time human progress in space also advanced, and only continued to advance
after the machines were created. If that is the case, and considering they
had roughly a century to do so, humans would most likely have colonized the
moon and Mars by the time the war between humans and machines started.

With the downfall of humans on Earth being an inevitability, I think that
blackening the sky was a means to protect the humans in space and prevent
machines from reaching them. I believe that the nanomachines are designed
to disable and disrupt electronic equipment as it passes through the cloud
barrier. This is evident in Revolutions as the human hovercraft breaks the
cloud barrier and immediately stalls. It's unlikely that the hovercraft
would have such an arbitrary altitude limit. Once through, any machines
passing through the barrier would be disabled and crash back to the surface.

I am also further convinced of this by the fact that the humans losing the
initial war to the machines must have known that by blackening the sky they
would also have killed most, if not all, of the humans still alive on Earth
for little or no gain. Machines obviously used power sources other than
solar energy and the disruption of that one source would only have caused
them a temporary set back, which was the case anyway. It makes more sense
that the humans on Earth, knowing that they would be overrun, cut off the
machines from the human colonies in space so that the continued survival of
the human race was guaranteed.

Otherwise, think of it this way, if solar power is so abundant and important
to the machines, why wouldn't they just leave Earth? The machines have
massive processing power capable of creating and running a dream world for
billions of people, yet they can't figure out how to build a rocket? They
also have unfettered access to the Earth's raw materials. If the barrier is
only to keep the sun out and not to keep machines in, then they should have
no problem with going into space where they would have access to solar power.

