Reddit Prcmtb

Hey fellow shredders. I've been thinking about flow and my own journey to
achieving flow on a mtb trail. It occurred to me that, although it isn't
always easy to achieve, there have been definite steps that I've had to go
through to get there. I decided to list them as the five basics steps to
achieving flow (or at least riding fluidly.) what do you think? Would you
agree? Add/change anything?

Thanks!

The Fear Stage

Perhaps fear is too strong a word. We're not scaring ourselves on steep
technical sections or hitting big drops yet, but we're not confidently
driving the bike when the trail points downwards either. We are passengers
giving mechanical input but we don't yet fully understanding the feedback our
steeds and trails are giving back. Trepidation constantly tickles and, whilst
the fun factor is definitely there, confidence has yet to be earned. Riders
often feel like they're sat high up on the bike and believe any obstacle
or section of challenging trail will send them over the bars. At the mercy
of gravity and the undulating terrain, we exercise control through the only
way we know how - by constantly dragging the brakes to keep speed in check.

This is the beginner stage where technical singletrack and open, gravelly
fire road all feel the same. Speed is something to be reigned in and descents
are challenges to be endured. Getting through in one piece is the primary
objective. We enjoy it, but we don't yet have the confidence to really hit it.

To leave this stage, we must first learn to brake correctly. Simply applying
either brake will pitch the rider forward, doing all sorts of bad things to
body position, weighting and traction. This leaves the rider with less control
which in turn dims confidence. The rider brakes even more as uncontrolled
speed becomes something that induces the run away train feeling of fear.

Learning to Brake

This is the first real stage of achieving flow on the trail. Applying the
brakes in short, controlled bursts as a means of maintaining traction is
the goal. Dropping the heels at these moments counters the momentum of the
body pitching forward as the bike decelerates. A good neutral body position
is maintained which keeps the bike balanced. A balanced, controlled bike
induces confidence so braking is used only as needed. The habit of dragging
the brakes can be lost.

Learning to Unweight

Recoil from the bike happens often, for example when braking force is released
or when coming out of a bermed corner. This recoil can also be induced with
a quick preload and release of the bike's suspension. When in this state, the
bike is less susceptible to being deflected off course by rough terrain. This
un-weighting of the bike is a key component to finding flow as it allows the
bike to float over sections that would otherwise cause the rider to slow down
(either because of undulating trail conditions sapping momentum or through
braking to regain control.) Un-weighting also allows the rider to easily
manipulate the bike as it becomes momentarily weightless, eg flopping the bike
from one lean to the opposite side to change direction between chicane corners.

As un-weighting becomes familiar, it can be exaggerated so the bike is pulled
tight to the rider as the arms and legs bend to accommodate. This is the
perfect setup to push the bike back into the dirt and create the pump......

Pumping the Trail

Wise old men of the mountain (bike) will say "if you're not pedaling, you
should be pumping." Use of this technique should become the default way to
ride any descent in order to maintain control and carry speed. Not only does
it allow the rider to squeeze extra momentum out of the trail, it stops the
riding high and feeling like a passenger sensation that can happen during
the early stages. Pumping keeps the arms and legs in sync with the terrain
and body weight low in the bike, so the trail is smoothed out. This can only
have the effect of increasing control.

As well as allowing the rider to float over technical stuff and maneuver
the bike around, the compression stage of the pump creates incredible
grip. Squashing the bike and tires into the dirt with deliberate force can
often create enough grip that the need to brake in order to maintain control
is made redundant. Often when people brake it is a reaction to feeling loss
of control of the bike (either through speed increasing or trail conditions
changing.) However it isn't always a scrubbing of speed that is required to
maintain control but an increase of grip.

Flow

The Holy Grail. Achieving flow depends on more than just the mastery of
technique. The delicate balance where ability meets challenge requires many
factors to be in perfect alignment. However it is possible to give flow a
helping hand. A nudge in the right direction. Once pumping becomes (almost)
unconscious the trail morphs into something new. Individual sections that
used to require their own unique problem solving (and often slowing down
for) become threaded together into one continuous motion. Everything feels
smooth, regardless of trail technicality, sometimes it even feels slow and
its only a Strava sanity check that confirms you are riding fast. You are
in the zone. This effortless feeling requires a lot of effort to maintain,
yet it feels like the bike and body are bearing this effort. The mind is free
to live in the exact moment and soak in the sheer pleasure of achieving flow.

