Xavier leaned his head agaisnt the window. His left arm rested on the window
sill and he looked towards the bar counter. There sat two women and a man
whom he eyed. One woman wore a blouse of forest green lined in gold and the other a black dress
with scarlet lines.

The woman in black leaned over to her partner sitting at the next bar seat
and raised her eye brows. 
	"He has floundered darling."
The man standing in front of the bar worked to maintain composure.
	"Madam, what a generous offer. I, ...we will get the papers straight away."
The woman in black considered him.
	"You do know what day we are arriving?"
He looked back, half determined in his conviction, and answered:
	"Certainly...Monday. The room will be clear, setup,	the boxes open."
The woman in green interjected:
	"No, closed and locked, thank you."
She received a servile response.
	"Yes, madam."
The woman in black smiled.
	"Thank you, Lester."

Lester turned from the counter and met the eyes of Xavier. Lester quickly
avoided his gaze, slicked his hair, and hurried from the room. He did not
know important matters could use such energy.

Xavier stayed sitting and mused at the golden border design of the green
carpet. The salon on the 80th story of Manchester Tower was spacious and
well lit. Winter light shone through the large windows and lit the gold
trim on the ceiling's edge. Wood paneled walls sided the double doors that
Lester walked through. These things pleased Xavier. Particuarly the way the
light seemed to collect within the empty glasses on the self behind the bar.
The women had not seemed to notice him. They talked intently about Monday's
event.

Krista looked past Xavier and out the window. There was a man against the
window, but he seemed translucent and did not require attention. She looked
back towards Rachel and reflected:
    "These days bask in light. And it is all anyone sees. Yet, beyond those
    windows is a cold we run from. We build salons of wood and gold, and amuse
    ourselves in splendor. We forget fear drives the world."

~~

Sea side views streamed past the dinning car windows of the south bound
Californian train. One passenger in a black long coat stood before the kitchen counter
and turned from the towards the car and called back, "Hey, you like a drink?"

A kid sitting under his gaze looked up.

"Uhm, me? Well, I..."

The man brought his hands together and touched a ruby stone held on a
black ring and laughed

	"The kid thinks I would get him a drink. How strange."
The boy's eyes dashed and he nervously laughed and hung his head.

Behind him a woman with black hair spoke slowly.
	"Kastile, get what I want."
The man in black cocked his eye brows in interest and replied.
	"Sure."

Xavier sat a few seats down from the woman. His back was towards the kitchen. 
He was there to listen. He did not know names, nor did he plan to be there.
Xavier merely was.  

Kastile was a supplier
for the endevours of Rachel and Krista, but Exavier did not know for
what. All Xavier had was an intutition and calling to follow. What
else could an angel to do?  He pursued all things in goodness and
faith. It followed that anything he pursued lead to a fullness in
time. But of these things his did not think; he was an intuative being. And
where we traveled and whom he helped was not up to him.

Sometimes Exavier guided women and men to success. Other times he withheld
achievement and supplied sadness. Xavier was glad at the places
he appeared. In these matters Xavier did not think or choose.  What little
he did think were reflections of a lightened heart. Occasionally
he became confused at the humans he encountered. But his intuition
reminded him that humans had choice.  

What Xavier enjoyed the most were the effects of light: The dance of light
through tree branches, the reflections off the waves, the light that gleamed off
the railroad tracks followed the train car as the moon follows an
those watching.  Of course, he did not know he 'liked' these things. Rather,
they attracted him as one is attracted to music. They happened and he was
glad. When they didn't, well, they might happen again.

At this moment he was etheral. Humans could not see him. Still some humans could
feel his presance. The spiritual forces of this world their battles among mortal
inhabitants.  

Though humans could not see him, spectres, the fallen compliment of the
angels, could. But, they could not tell whether he was human or spirit until he
revealed himself. It is not so much that an angel's light is hidden, but
that a spectre's eyes are veiled to see only what they wish to see. On the
other hand, angels readily recognize dark spirits.

At this moment the spectre at the train's bar counter was in human form.

Kastile walked back to his seat facing to the human woman. She smiled and took
the drink. Kastile sat straight and expectentally looked at her with piercing eyes
. The woman tried to match Kastile's dominating precence by placing her hand on
her leg, leaning forward, and looking under her eye
brows, but her eyes wavered and after a moment she looked at the table. 
Her back bent ever so slightly as to betray her uneasiness. Yet, she persisted and
looked abck at Kastile. He raised his eye brows as if to let her know
he could see through her mask.

~

Rachel and Krista walked through Central Park. Rachel sang softly and swung
her arms. She reached forward and guided a breeze through a tree. The leaves
rustled and the branched bowed. Krista, who walked next to her, rolled her
eyes. Krista gestured a tight pull with her hands at her side. The wind chilled and
blew harder. Green leaves began to fall. They fell to the ground until there
was a circle of green beneath a bare tree. 

Rachel laughed,
	"How beautiful!"
Krista's eyes glanced sideways and she tightened her lips.
	"You exasperate me."
Rachel thought for a moment,
	"You know, I wish you would not sulk all day. I can't see how you keep it up.
To this Krista smiled,
	"My dear, you'll learn it is the only thing enjoyable."
That sounded amusing,
	"I hope not!"
Krista sighed,
	"That power which drives you: You tire of it. For good or worst,
	in the end, the world stays it's course; hopelesly driven towards the
	satisfaction of it's mind. People think lust is a physical yearning. I
	think not. More often, humans lust for their stories to be admired; 
	They work long hours to afford their ideas of self. In the past they 
	would drink alchohol. Not for the sensation and loss of balance, no, and certainly not for the headaches. 
	They drink for ideas and feelings of power. In our current age, they paste their 
	eyes with smoot to blind themselves from reality. For a moment they live in the 
	creation of their minds. Who cares for sensation when one can be satisfied with an idea?"

Rachel rolled her eyes upward and blew through her lips,
	"But ideas are useless in themselves."
Krista gave a cold laugh,
	"Not if you can return to them! Or if you forget they are useless. Of
	course, that's the business we're in, We let them create worlds they
	can return to. 

    How exciting that Monday it all begins. All our work and
    design have lead to this point. Monday we open the doors of experience. Don't
    forget that.  You are not making worlds for fun. You make worlds for me.
    Without me you would not be able to lift a leaf from the floor."
Rachel stampered,
	"I...might still be happy."
Krista smiled between her lips and glared at Rachel. Krista's eyes seemed to flicker as embers.
	"After what you've tasted, you will never see the world the same." 

~~

Kastile bent his head and walked into the tunnel. Orange light glowed
beneath the laterns strung along the walls. His boots skuffed against the
dirt floor. The dank musk of the cave vexed him. Even more did the thought
of the creatures he was about to visit. "Nausious, depraved, scoundrels", Kastile spit.

The tunnel opened to a cavern. Kastile straightened, placed his hands behind
his back, raised his head and looked down accross the cavern. Blue ether
stone illumed the cavern in subdued glow. The farthest reaches twinkled like
the night sky.

Kastile turned is head and looked down on his ruby ring. It glowed deep red.
Ruby glows the closer it is to it's origin.

A hunched form tottered towards him.

"Eh, master. We have been good digging for you."  

Kastile looked up from his ring.  

"So you say?"  

"Yes'm."  

"Excellent. How much?"  

"Lots, lots, lots," The creature expulsed.	

The figure's face held still in the shadows. It's two eyes flickered between
colors in the dimmness of the cavern.  
	Orange, Blue 
	Blue, Orange 
	Black, Black on a blink.  
	Blue, Orange

"Keep up the work."  

"Oh yes'm, yes."

The creature swayed backwards and forwards in anticipation. Kastile rached
into his long coat pocket and pulled out a paper package.

The creature cooed.
	"Yes'm, please."
Kastile eyed the creature in distain.
	"How predictable", he thought.
Then Kastile asked,
	"The stone is in the loading bay, yes?"
It turned anxiously on it's feet.
	"Ohh, yes, sire," it managed.

"Okay."  Kastile let the package fall.

The creature yelped and fell on it's knees. It's sense of time slowed.
The package was tied with twine. Both its hands held the bow ends and pulled. The
loops vanished in themselves and the creature unfolded the package onto
the floor.  In the middle of the paper lay a cloth bag. The creature opened the
cloth bag and reached it's finger toward the opening. Color seemed to drain into 
the bag's mouth. It's fingers, once illumed by the orange tunnel lights
turned  gray. The creature bent it's head closer. It's back shone blue from the ether stone 
behind it, but the orange light before it's face fled into the bag. The
creature dipped two fingers into the bag and widthdrew 
blackened paste. It's mouth mumbled as it spread the paste over it's eyes.

From the tunnel's overlook Kastile walked into the twilight of the cavern. He
followed a path outlined by ether stone. "How faithful these creatures are,"
he thought, "Even within their anguish and blind existence they hope to
satisfy their mind. They'll do whatever I want."

~~~

Xavier sat up and opened his eyes. He observed how the morning light rippled
through the dangling glass tea cups hanging from the awning of the front porch.
He stood up from the couch on which he had dozed and walked towards the railing. 
The blanket covering the couch lay unwrinkled and unmoved. 

The front door of the house opened and Sebastian ran through. His school bag
bobbled on his back as he ran down the walkway towards the school bus. 
Sebastian wore white sneakers whose laces dangled as he ran. One lace from 
his left shoe landed on the concrete and lay still as his right shoe stepped on 
the fallen lace. The left janked and Sebastian pivoted forward. 
His head whipped the concrete with a thud and his body lay still.
Blood began to drain into the grass. The school bus driver ran towards
Sebastian.  

~~~

It was Monday.

Rachel sighed and pulled her seeing lenses over her eyes. The world became
dark. She did not like this
part of their project. She thought to her self: 
	"Actually, I like everything but making it happen."
Krista and Rachel's architecture was planned in words and unfolded by words.

Rachel stood in the dark of her covered eyes, yet she was not constrained by
the cover. She stood on a vast dark canvas. It felt like standing in the
spotlight of a stage, blinded, except with no light. 

Then, by her intention, stairs appeared. Walls rose and windows floated into
place.  Still, beyond the glass windows: Darkness. A carpet unrolled and a
ceiling came down to cover the emptyness. Light fixtures unraveled from
their chains. With her thought, Rachel moved plants against the columns and
into the corners. She willed light to come forth and the banquet hall
gleamed in the daylight passing through the windows. She smiled and flashed
to the indoor balcony and leaned on the railing.

"I really enjoyed creating this ballroom structure," she thought. "Amazing,
these powers Krista imparted to me. I should not be so sad. 

Look Rachel, the columns arise from green
ferns and the column tops hold the edges of the domed ceiling. The carpets, red, spread across
the floor. I think, 'Tables appear!' And look, they appear." 

She took mental
note of the timing. Not physical time, for in this place, time held little
meaning. Rather she noted Krista's momentary intentions. "Soon the whole
reason for our little creation appears"

Rachel walked about finishing the final touches: A glimmer in the window
and a view of the 'outdoors garden'. Yet, if one looked closely one might see
uncertainty in the roses. Ever so often they flickered in color as if they
were insecure in the color chosen for them.

An electronic duo appeared on a corner stage. A hum arose. The two musicians
tinkered on their devices. On held his headphones in one hand. The other's
arched over her head. The hum paused and they flicked their devices in
time. The lights dimmed. The synths pulsed and the walls ocillated in subtle
color. The windows became shaded and provided a slight ambient light. 
The music played, but Rachel did not hear anything. She turned the noise off
for herself and contined to walk about. She was waiting for the start of the
party.  

On the peak of rising crecendo the door flung open and in Krista walked. She wore
a slim, long black dress with a cut down her left arm. The cut was red
trimmed as was the collar. She smiled, stepped aside, and turned around to watch the
the customers enter. Many people walked through. They gawked at the space
before them and bobbed their heads to the music. Satisfied, Krista walked
into the central floor and assended the stairs towards Rachel.

"Rachel, they cannot resist."  
"We would not do this if they could."
Krista agreed,
	"Yes."
Rachel continued,
	"They seem a bit awkward."

	"That happens when one experiances this for the first time. Plus, they
     are getting used to the smoot." 

	"Oh, you've done this before", Rachel asked.
	"Look, like new born sheep in a pasture", Krista said.

Rachel knew her question was avoided, but did not think much of it. 
She looked down upon the people. They stood wide eyed.

One person, wearing a perfectly fitted tan suit with an azure 
shirt beneath, looked at his perfectly polished shoes. He touched his
hair with a tab, but realized it was perfect and in-place. He looked around,
first at the magnetic electronic duo playing in the corner. 

He thought the tempo, tone, and balance of the music elegant. 
The display of the duo was fitting. They moved the melody gently 
over a smooth beat.  


mingled and walked about the large banquet hall. They were
carefree and talked with each other at leisure. 




Krista looked to the figure on the other side of the stairs. He leaned over
the railing and seemed to watch the revelers below.
Krista paused and turned her head,
	"Rachel, who is that?"

Rachel answered:
	"I don't know. He was sitting by the window when we last met with
	Lester."
"I didn't pick that up.", Krista said.

"Yes...he seemed to blend in. He has
that peculiar quality."

Krista tapped the banister..
	"Please have a chat with him. I would not want any hinderence
	to our plans."

Rachel raised her eye brows, flicked her feet, and walked casually along
the banister and past the stairs.  She appraised him as she drew near. He held one arm
against the banister and the other behind his back. The man looked about
himself with curious, good natured eyes.

"He is amused with my creation", Rachel thought and smiled slightly, 
"Yet, he is different than the rest. They cannot help themselves and are as good as
the decor. It is what they pay for. To be thinkless within
their dreams. Life if effort, and many people pay to just be. But his man is different. 
He knows where he is. If this hall and it's revelers were within a painting,
he stands without, observing." 
Her thoughts drifted, "In times past kings would comission works of art. Now
everyone is their own king or queen. Now they comission me to make them into
art. Yet this man is different. He looks like he has understanding. That
could be dangerous.  What could he want? How did he get here?"


Rachel drew near and the man turned and noticed her. The flash of white
from his eyes pierced her persona and her heart stopped.  She shook the thought
and drew a comment of testing.
	"The night lets one dance like no one is watching."
He responded,
	"Then who is there to please?"
She answered,
	"Yourself and those who notice"

	"But I thought no one was watching."

	"It is as if no one is watching." 

    "Why would that matter?"

She smirked and said: "One is free in anonymity, others see and may be
pleased or dismayed, but if one is no-one, tomorrow is never." 

He smiled and thought out loud: "Yes, why fear to dance when there is
no-one to judge?"

She continued: "Judgement always comes later, one must act to be judged. If
there is no judgement, there is no later. One will dance like there is no 
tomorrow."




 
